dogma ext asbury park boardwalk day jersey spring day. beyond the wooden planks that make up the aged fun pier, the ocean waves crash into the sandy shoreline. an old man stares at the empty beach. sun worshipers hours away from besmirching the dunes. his features are simple. he wears an old overcoat. his face belies good years gone by a face that has seen more sunrises than one would suspect. he inhales the crisp, salty air and lets a small, satisfied smile cross his face. behind him. a large arcade with steel shuttered doors sits on the boardwalk. three young boys skate around by on roller blades, passing a street hockey ball between them proficiently. the old man views them briefly. checks his watch, and looks back toward the ocean. the skates of the three hockey playing youths skid to a halt. we pan up to their faces now cold and dispassionate. they look at one another and nod. their skates glide out of frame. p.o.v. skaters the old man leans on the railing that overlooks the beach. we get closer and closer to him until... one of the skaters checks him hard into the railing. the old man exhales violently and falls to his knees. the two other skaters begin savagely beating on him with their hockey sticks, as he crumbles beneath them. repeatedly their blades crash down hard on his head. oc voice i don't understand how can you base your lack of belief in god on the writings lewis caroll? the three skaters cease their beating and check the old man's pulse. satisfied, they skate away, leaving his crumpled form on the boardwalk. int airport day loki walks beside a nun in a semi busy terminal. they pass through the metal detectors. the nun carries a donation can. loki leaving 'alice in wonderland' aside, look closely at 'through the looking glass' particularly 'the walrus and the carpenter' poem what's the metaphorical meaning? nun i wasn't aware there was one. loki oh, but there is it colorfully details the sham that is organized religion. the walrus with his girth and good nature obviously refers to either the buddha, or with his tusks the lovable hindu elephant god, lord ganesha. this takes care of the eastern religions. the carpenter is an obvious reference to jesus christ, who was purportedly raised the son of a carpenter. he represents the western religions. and in the poem. what do they do? they dupe all the oysters into followmg them. then. when the oysters collective guard is down. the walrus and the carpenter shuck and devour the helpless creatures, en masse. i don't know what that says to you, but to me it says that following faiths based on these mythological figures insures the destruction of one's inner being. bartleby sits amongst a row of seats by one of the arrival gates. he eats popcorn and stares at... a steady stream of travelers, exiting the gate, meeting lovedones, family. oc loki organized religion destroys who we are or who we can be by inhibiting our actions and decisions out of fear of an intangible parent figure who shakes a finger at us from thousands of years ago and says "no, no!" bartleby smiles at the meet and greets, warmed. loki saddles up beside him, kneeling on one of the seats, facing the nun. loki 'through the looking glass' a children's tale? i think not. nun really dazed i've... i've never really thought about it like that... beat shocked off her cassock what have i been doing with my life...?'. loki don't look back. just get out there and taste life. off donation can leave this for the unenlightened. poverty is for the gullible it's another way the church is trying to control you. you take that money you've been collecting for your parish reconstruction and go get yourself a nice piece of ass. you deserve it. the nun nods at him, and saunters off, obviously grappling with something. a passerby tries to stick money in her can, but she yanks it away. loki faces the proper direction in his seat and plops down beside the still transfixed bartleby. bartleby looking oc here's what i don't get about you you know for a fact that there is a god. you've been in his presence, he's talked to you personally. and yet i just heard you claim to be an atheist. loki c'mon man you know i don't believe any of that shit i was telling her. i just like to fuck with the clergy keep 'em on their toes. when her head stops spinning, she'll be facing the way of the just again. but oh. will she have a bunch to confess. looks around now here's what i don't get about you why do you feel the need to come here all the time? bartleby off travelers i like to watch. this is humanity at it's best. look at them. a reunited family share a group hug and move on, making way for two young lovers to embrace and kiss passionately. oc bartleby all that tension, all that anger and mistrust, forgotten for one perfect moment when they come off that plane. see those two? the guy doesn't even know that the girl cheated on him while he was away. oc loki she did? bartleby and loki continue to watch the arrivals. bartleby uh huh. twice. but it doesn't matter at this moment because they're both so relieved to be with one another. i like that. i just wish they could all feel that way more offen. loki maybe if someone gave them free bags of peanuts more often they would. now what was so friggin' important that i had to miss cartoons this morning? if it was to share in your half assed obsessions with hallmark moments, i'm going to slug you. bartleby still looking oc you're never going to believe this we're going home. loki off bartleby's popcorn let me have some? bartleby pulls out envelope look what somebody sent us in the mail. hands him a newspaper article and corn loki did you say we're going home? reads "cardinal glick cuts ribbon on 'catholicism wow!" campaign." to bartleby and? bartleby keep reading. loki reads "updating the church... television spots... papal consent... rededication... to bartleby again and? bartleby snatches article give me this getting up reading "the re dedication of saint michael's church on it's hundredth anniversary is the kickoff of a new campaign that seeks to bring the catholic church back into the mainstream. with a papal sanction, the archway entrance to the centuryold, jersey shore house of worship will serve as a passageway of pleanry indulgence, which according to catholic beliefs offers all who pass through it's arches a morally clean slate." looks at loki you still don't get it, do you? loki no, i don't get it. are we leaving now? they start walking. bartleby if you walk through the church's front door on the day of the re dedication ceremony, your soul is wiped clean of any and all existing sin, moreso than the sacrament of penance could ever offer. it's a plenary indulgence, man! i don't know why i never thought of this before. loki spits out chewed popcorn into trash can sounds thin. sounds like someone made it up. bartleby it's rarely employed, but it's legitimate. it has a papal sanction for god's sake. loki so you're saying you and i can walk through this doorway and go back home? bartleby no by passing through the doors, our sins are forgiven. then all we have to do is die... loki wait. wait, wait die? i don't want to die. chews popcorn bartleby steps on conveyor belt you'd rather stay down here for a few more eons? loki no, but we don't even know if we can die. and what if we can, but this archway thing doesn't pan out? what then? hell? fuck that. spits out chewed popcorn into napkin bartleby impossible. if we cut off our wings and transubstantiate to complete human form then we become mortal. and if we die with clean souls, there's no way to keep us out. they have to let us in. loki beat who sent this thing? bartleby i don't know. somebody who's looking out for us, i guess. does it matter? all that matters is that after all these years, we've found a loophole. he can't keep us out anymore. and once we're back in, i'm sure he'll just forgive and forget. they pass the nun. who leans against a wall, still dazed. loki yeah, but this plenary' indulgence thing is a church law, not divine mandate. church laws are fallible because they're created by man. bartleby one of the last sacred promises imparted to peter the first pope by the son of god before he left was "whatever you hold true on earth..." loki " ...i'll hold true in heaven." bartleby so if the pope says it's so, god must adhere. it's dogmatic law. loki beat extends hand let it never be said that your anal retentive attention to detail never yielded positive results. bartleby accepts hand you can't be anal retentive if you don't have an anus. loki there's just one thing i think i should do before we leave something that'il get us back on his good side. bartleby what's that? loki smiles and starts rifling through his pockets. he extracts a magazine article. loki this is something i've been dreaming about for five years now. read. the crumpled article displays a barney like gold hued cow, alongside various profit charts and text. oc bartleby reading "mooby the golden calf creating an empire out of simplicity." loki wipes his mouth and nods to the article. loki i want to hit them. bartleby are you nuts?! crumples article we're mere days away from getting back, and you want to jeopardize it because you have a soft spot for the good ol' days?! loki what better way to show i've repented than by resuming the position i denied... thanks to you. bartleby a killing spree is not going to make things better for us. loki we're not talking about killing here. we're talking about divine justice. we're talking about punishing the wicked, raining down fire and brimstone. he's all about that. i just know he'd want this done. bartleby there hasn't been an angel of death since you quit. doesn't that mean anything to you? besides, what if you're wrong? loki if i'm wrong, it won't matter. like you said we pass through the arch and we're forgiven anyway they step up to an elevator and press the button. bartleby considering it well... he does hate competition. reading article and this mooby deninitely falls under that heading. loki the church we have to go to is where? bartleby new ersey. the rededication is in four days. the doors open. they get on. other people are inside as well. loki our last four days on earth. if i had a dick, i'd go get laid. but we can do the next best thing. bartleby what's that? loki let's kill people. a guy beside loki reacts. loki smiles at him as the elevator doors close. opening credits between black cards with white credits there are shots of the old man from the boardwalk being wheeled into a hospital on a gurney, being treated in the emergeny room, being hooked up to life support system, and finally resting in an intensive care wing. ext st. stephen's parish day the church sits on a grassy knoll in mc henry a suburb of chicago. some kids tear by on bikes and egg it. oc priest the greater illinois chapter of the right to life foundation will be holding it's bi annual softball game against the cook county pro choice league next sunday at two. int st. stephen's parish day the priest speaks from the lectern, addressing semi filled rows of the faithful. priest those who find the weekly demonstration outside of the twelfth street planned parenthood clinic hard to make due to work schedules are urged to show their support in the fight against the thoughtless and wanton destruction of life by cheering on our boys on the field. refreshments. as always, will be served. dollying down the rows while the priest rattles on. we pass the parishoners. some listen intently, others are nodding off. one surreptitiously listens to a walk man a man and a woman quietly argue while their kid colors in a coloring book, going off the page and marking the pew two kids play cards one guy leafs through a copy of hustler hidden by his hymnal book. oc priest today's second collection will be donated to the john doe jersey life fund. for those of you who haven't been following the news, an unidentified homeless man who was accosted and severely beaten at the new jersey shore last tuesday lies in critical but stable condition in one of that area's hospitals. he lacks identification and police have had no luck in tracking down any possible family. while he shows no signs of recovery, the arch bishop of the trenton diocese has disputed the state's decision to remove the indigent man from life support systems, asking that catholics all over the country join in this protest against euthanasia. and finally will whoever keeps parking in my spot, stop doing that. thank you. now, please rise for the recession of faith. we believe in one god, the father... as the congregation flatly joins in the prayer, we stop on bethany a beautiful twenty something woman who struggles to stay awake. she checks her watch and exhales softly. oc voice i don't really want to be here. ent planned parenthood clinic day a small gaggle of signcarrying right to lifer's march in front of the sterile looking building. oc voice but then again, i guess nobody ever does... except maybe you. int bethany's office day the source of the voice a girl sits beside bethany's desk, stretching out her gum. bethany offers her an understanding smile. girl you know, i've done this three times now and each time the counselor tells me i should be more careful in the future, i should show' some responsibility. gotta tell you, though this is the first time the counselor wasn't some ugly as hell old bitch. it's kind of hard to take abortion advice from a woman who's too gross to get laid in the first place. bethany i'm not here to lecture you i'm here to make sure you really want to go through with this. girl i'd rather go back to that night when my idiot bovfriend swore up and down he was sterile. short of that, there aren't many choices left, now are there? bethany ever think about having it? girl beat what woman doesn't on some level. bethany i never did. girl incredulous you had an abortion? bethany lights a smoke my first year in college. all through high school, i'd dated the same guy walter flanagan. we were really in love, right? so much so. that we decided to go carnegie mellon together... that's this college in pittsburgh. so there we are away at school, and there's suddenly no parents to worry about anymore, so we're screwing like rabbits just constanly doing it. and i wound up getting pregnant. so he begs me to have it. he says we should quit school and get married, and i'm telling him that that'li screw up our educations. we fought about it for a week my arguement being there was no rush to have kids, you know? we could always have a baby in a couple of years after school. so i got the abortion against his wishes... i mean, what the hell it was my body, right? after graduation, we got married and immediately set about trying to have kids. we tried like hell for the first six months, and... nothing. so i went to a gynocologist to see if everything was okay on my end. beat it wasn't. takes a drink my uteran wall had this fissure. it seems that the doctor who performed the procedure on me years before had somehow botched it. i'd never be able to have a child. the girl's face says it all. bethany takes a drag and continues. bethany so there i am devastated. and now i have to go home to break the news to my husband who years before had begged me to have the baby his baby. and after i explain it to him through my tears, he sits on the couch and rubs his eyes. and in the calmest, most rational voice i've ever heard anybody use in my life, he asks me for a divorce. and i fought him, you know? i tried to talk him out of it told him there were alternatives like we could adopt. and all he said was he wanted a wife who could have his children. girl beat what happened? bethany he remarried. he had two kids in two years with his new wife. we never spoke again. and now i do this. girl that's like... such a sad story. bethany i dated this guy a year or two ago he was really into comic books. he told me i had the stock superhero story i wanted to prevent a wrong that had happened to me from ever happening to anyone else. kind of like batman, he said. the only difference is i don't put on tights to do it... unless all my other clothes are in the wash. smiles and puts out her smoke so... let's go over your paperwork. ext clinic day a well dressed liz maneuvers through the small thrall of right to lifer's. they shake their placards at her accusingly. protestor 1 you should be ashamed of yourself! protestor 2 child killer! liz looking over their shoulders holy shit!! it's the pope!! as the thrall turns excitedly in an effort try to spy the imaginary pontiff, liz ducks inside the clinic. int clinic coffee room day a newspaper headline fills the frame "church says no to death of john doe". it's lowered to reveal bethany, reading. liz enters and hangs up her coat. liz jesus! you're a catholic, aren't you? can't you talk to them or something? bethany they hate me more than you, no doubt. at least you have an excuse you're ewish, you don't know any better. liz i don't think they'd accept that one we already used it as our excuse for killing christ. so where were you yesterday morning a bunch of us went out for brunch? bethany i went to church. liz that kills me. you and church. we work in a field that specializes in pissing off the cloth and you add insult to injury by breaking bread with them every week. bethany i sit there every sunday and i feel nothing. i can remember sitting in church when i was a kid and being moved like everything meant something, like i was important. and the stories of all these holy people were so inspiring. now i sit there and think about my checking, and what i'm going to wear to work the next day. liz so then why do you still go? bethany beat you wouldn't believe me if i told you. liz you think i'm going to mock your religious beliefs? we're friends, bethany i may mock you for being a divorce' at twenty five who's never had an orgasm, but i'd never mock you for having faith. bethany that's just it i don't. i don't think i have any faith left. liz making coffee i had a girl in here once 'bout fifteen. she told me that faith is like a glass of water. when you're young, the glass is full, and it's easy to fill up. but the older you get, the bigger the glass gets, and the same amount of water doesn't fill the glass anymore. periodically, the glass has to be refilled. bethany a fifteen year old who came in here said that? liz she had gotten knocked up by her pastor. bethany jesus! see? a minister knocks up a teenager isn't anyone afraid of the lord's wrath anymore? liz that would require faith, and that commodity lately seems reserved only for the psychotic zealots that hang around outside. collects her things to leave so what are you doing tonight? bethany watching t.v. liz girl, you need a man. if only for ten minutes. bethany it's been my experience that the average male is never a man not even for ten minutes in his entire life span. liz uh oh that sounds militant. you thinking of joining the other side? bethany couldn't do it. women are insane. liz then girl, you better get back to church and ask god for a third option. bethany i think god is dead. liz the sign of a true catholic. liz exits with her coffee. bethany stares after her. int a quaint suburban home day the stygian triplets kneel on one knee before a high backed leather chair, upon which sits a shadowy figure who we see from behind. they appear to be in a den or library. shadowy figure all proceeds according to plan. no doubt, the powers will attempt to contact the last scion. you know where she is. she must be elliminated befoie she enters the frav. when she is negated, there will be nothing to interfere with our plan. shuffle her loose her mortal coil, that we may obtain our final glory. beat go. the stygian triplets rise and skate off. int bethany's kitchien night the fridge door opens and bethany glances around inside. she pulls out a chocolate cake and closes the door. int bethany's living room night bethany sits on the couch, eating cake with a fork and watching the oc t.v. the theme song to filmation's 'batman and robin' cartoon can be heard. she sips some milk from a glass and has some more cake. int bethany's bedroom night bethany's in bed, staring up at the ceiling. from the darkness, a creaking floor board is heard. bethany reacts, grabbing a bat from under her pillow. she peers into the darkness, defensively wielding her bat. suddenly, the room explodes in flames. a huge fire that appears to be shooting out from the floor ignites mere feet from bethany's bed. bethany leaps back, taking a beat to stare, mesmerized. looking closely, one can see an anthropomorphic form standing in the blaze. voice powerful booming behold the metatron herald of the almighty and voiceof the one true god! the voice repeats itself. bethany darts out of bed and dashes out of the room, quickly returning with a fire extinguisher. while the voice is in mid sentence, she blasts the thing with the contents of the canister, swirling the nozzle around to hit all the flames. the booming voice sputters and starts coughing, losing it's impressive edge. bethany stops squirting and turns on her bedside lamp. a choking, drenched, and coughing androgynous figure in a suit waves her away. the figure coughs up some of the extinguisher's contents and drops to the floor, hacking. it is metatron. bethany stares, shocked. metatron between coughs sweet. ..jesus! did you... have to empty...the whole can?! bethany grabs her bat again and holds it up, this time offensively. bethany who the fuck are you and what the fuck are you doing in my room?! metatron slowly rising to it's feet i'm the one... who's soaked and... she's the one who's pissed. that's rich! bethany reaching for phone, still holding bat i'm calling the cops! breaking and entering, attempted arson... they're going to lock you up for life...! m etatron wiping off clothes no dial tone. bethany ear to phone you cut the phone lines... even more offensive with bat get the fuck out of here, now! metatron or you'll what hit me with that fish? the bat bethany held is now a salmon. she drops it to the floor and freaks. metatron now just sit down on the bed and shut up! bethany oh god you're going to rape me... metatron i'm not going to rape you. to itself off clothes look at my suit...! bethany take whatever you want, just don't kill or rape me... metatron enough with the raping already! i couldn't rape you if i wanted to. unzips pants and pulls them off angels are ill equipped. bethany stares. there, before her, stands the exposed metatron. there is nothing where some sexual genitalia should be it's as smooth and anatomically impaired as a ken doll. metatron see? i'm as anatomically impaired as a ken doll. rings out pants you meat puppets and your arrogance you think everyone's just waiting to rape you. bethany wh..what are you? metatron i'm pissed is what i am. you go around drenching everyone that comes into your room with flameretardent chemicals? no wonder you don't get laid. pulls pants back on go get me a towel, will you? bethany blinks. she exits the room and comes back with a towel. she holds it out to metatron who grabs it and starts toweling off. metatron taking off jacket stand back. bethany steps back. metatron flexes and huge fucking wings extend from it's back, dripping water. bethany goes wide eyed and cowers against the wall. metatron tosses towel away like i was saying i am the metatron. bethany stares, saying nothing, pinned against the wall. metatron looks insulted. metatron metatron. don't tell me the name doesn't ring a bell? bethany remains silent and wideyed. metatron gets testy. metatron you people. if there isn't a movie about it, it's not worth knowing, right? beat i am a seraphim. beat the highest choir of angels? beat you do know what an angel is, don't you? bethany slowly nods. metatron metatron acts as the voice of god. any documented occasion when some yahoo claims to have spoken with god, they're speaking to me. or they're speaking to themselves. bet hany beat why doesn't god speak for himself? metatron ah. so glad you decided to join the conversation. to answer that human beings have neither the aural nor the psychological capacity to withstand the awesome power of god's true voice. were you to hear it, you're mind would cave in and your heart would explode within your chest. we went through five adam's before we figured that out. bethany are you going to kill me? ni etatron i could for what you did to this suit. unfortunately i can't. you're called. beth any beat called how? how called? metatron all that from two words. color this angel impressed. bethany beat how do i know you're an angel? metatron oh, you mean besides the fiery entrance and the expansive wingspan? you people kill me. fine. you want more proof? how about a tequila? snaps fingers int mexican bar night bethany and metatron sit at a table. bethany immediately clutches at her pajamas. metatron waves a waiter over. bethany where the hell are we?! metatron the only place one can go for good tequila. to waiter dos tequilas, por favor. and an empty glass. waiter si. the waiter turns to leave. metatron yanks a smoke from his pocket as he goes. metatron gracias, senor. bethany we're in mexico?! metatron actually, we're in the chilli's down the street from your house, but it was still an impressive trick lights smoke you don't mind that i lost the wings, do you? i'm trying to keep our profile low. bethany i suppose it would be too cliche to observe aloud that this is the weirdest dream i've ever had. metatron can you imagine how insulting it is to converse with a person and have them insist you're a dream? if i had an ego, it'd be bruised. bethany what do you want with me? metatron i'm to charge you with a holy crusade. pause you do know what a crusade is, don't you? bethany sarcastically uh, yeah. metatron don't give me that. last time i charged someone with a crusade they had to look the word up. bethany why am i supposed to go on a crusade? metatron your's is a heritage divine. also, you didn't seem to be doing much lately. the waiter arrives with their drinks. metatron oh gracias! he leaves off the tequila one of the only things your people have mastered since you crawled from the primordial ooze. sips bethany i work in an abortion clinic. metatron spits tequila into empty glass moses was a drunk. look what he accomplished. and no one's even asking you to part an ocean. all you have to do is go to new jersey. beth any new ersey. metatron sure. go to new jersey and visit and small church on a very important day. agreed? bethany that doesn't sound like a crusade. metatron aside from the fine print, that's it. bethany what's the fine print? metatron mumbles into glass stopacoupleofangelsfromenteringandthusnegatingallexistence. damn, this is good tequila. sips bethany wait, wait, wait. repeat that. metatron damn, this is good tequila? bethany the first part. metatron spits into empty glass details. stop a couple of angels from entering and thus negating all existence. god, i hate when people need it spelled out for them. bethany clarify that. metatron that's the problem with you people you need every thing clarified. no leaps of faith whatsoever. alright vou want the whole secret origin? here goes back in the old days, god was vengeful and hot tempered, and his wrath was bore by the angel of death name of loki. when sodom and gommorah were destroyed? that was loki. when the waters wiped out everything with the exception of noah and his menagerie? that was loki. and he was good at what he did. but one day, he refused to bear god's wrath any longer. bethany why? metatron because he listened to his friend a grigori by the name of bartleby. bethany grigori? metatron one of the choirs of angels. they're called watchers. guess what they do? bethany so they're like guardian angels? metatron exactly like that, but different. so one day, loki's wiping out all the first born of egypt... bethany the tenth plague. metatron see? tell a person you're the metatron and they stare at you blankiy mention something out of a charlton heston movie and they're suddenly theology scholars. may i continue uninterrupted? bethany nods so once he's done with the first born, loki takes his friend bartleby out for a post slaughter drink. and over many rounds, they get into this discussion about whether or not murder in the name of god is okay. now, bartleby can run circles around loki intellectually, not to mention the fact that loki's more than half in the bag, and in the end, bartleby convinces loki to quit his position and take a lesser one one that doesn't involve slaughter. so very inebriated loki tells god he quits throws down his fiery sword, gives him the finger which ruins it for the rest of us. because from that day forward, god decreed that angels could no longer imbibe alcohol. hence all the spitting. bethany sounds reasonable. metatron maybe to you, but i'm a lush by nature. bethany i mean about the angel of death's resignation. metatron for a liberal, yes, but this is the angel of death we're talking about. the angel of death can't be a conscientious objector. the angel of death is charged with meting out whatever justice god demands. so for their insolence, god decreed that neither loki nor bartleby would ever be allowed back into paradise. bethany were they sent to hell? metatron worse. wisconsin. for the entire span of human history. and when the world ends, they'll sit outside the gates for eternity. bethany and what's this have to do with me? metatron somebody's clued them in to a loophole in catholic dogma that would allow them to reenter heaven. bethany so what? they beat the system. good for them. metatron it's not that simple. if they get in, they will have reversed god's decree. now listen up because this part is very important existence in all it's form and splendor functions solely on one principle god is infallible. to prove god wrong would undo reality and everything that is. up would become down, black would become white, existence would become nothingness. in essence if they are allowed to enter that church, they'll unmake the world. bethany are these guys that bitter? metatron no, that's the stupid part they have no idea what their actions will result in. as far as they know, they're just going home. isn't that sweet? bethany if this is so major, why are you talking to me? why doesn't god do something? metatron he could. he could blink them out of existence, destroy that church, turn them into plants. but he'd rather see you take care of this one personally. bethany why me? metatron because of who you are. bethany and who am i? metatron the girl in the p.j.'s. don't ask so many questions just serve your purpose. bethany i'll pass. metatron i beg your pardon? bethany when some asshole abortion doctor destroyed my uterus where was god? when my husband decided he couldn't be with a wife that couldn't bear his children where was god? now all the sudden, after all these years of quiet noninvolvement in my life, he sends one of his lackey's my way who tells me i should save the world, and as what some sort of test? to hell with him. metatron do yourself a favor bethany do the world a favor let go of your petty crap. it's served you precious little in the past, and it serves you even less now when the fate of existence hangs in the balance. don't allow eons of history and life to get blinked out of being just because you have a grudge against your creator. bethany a grudge? do you know why i work in that clinic? it's my own private way of saying "fuck you" to god. metatron and any other day i'd say that's your business and your life, and enjoy yourself and goodnight. but this isn't about you this is about evebody. so you lost the abiliry to make life. you're being offered the chance to play mother to the world by acting like one and protecting it saving it. swigs her drink and spits it out but i can't make you. you'll do what you will. however, if you should decide to stop being selfish and accept your responsibility, you won't be alone. you'll have support. bethany what, more angels? nietatron prophets although they don't quite get it yet. you'll know them right away one speaks, the other listens. the one who speaks and he will at great lengths, whether you want him to or not will make mention of himself as a prophet. the other one won't say anything, but he'll be helpful just the same. looks at watch i have to go. you'll do what you will, but try to remember that we're working in a time frame here. metatron moves to exit. bethany beat hey. metatron turns you work for god. metatron they tell me it's god. if it's not, i'm going to be severely pissed what with all these years of bossing people around on his behalf and expectorating perfectly good tequila. bethany what's he like? god? metatron thinks lonely. but funny. he's got a great sense of humor. bethany i'll bet. metatron look at sex. sex is funny. one time i asked him why you people had to look so stupid while procreating. he said if you didn't, you'd do it all the time, just for fun. bethany but we do. metatron i know. and you all look so damn stupid doing it. it kills us upstairs. bethany sex is a joke in heaven? metatron the way i understand it, it's mostly a joke down here too. and with that, nietatron is gone. bethany looks at her drink. a three man mariachi band surround her and begin playing prince's 'little red corvette'. int bethany's bedroom night bethany startles awake. the radio on her night table plays 'little red corvette'. she lays back down. int bethany's office day bethany sits at her desk, staring into space. a twenty something girl speaks, butbethany's not really listening. she's extremely preoccupied. int clinic night bethany shuts off the lights in the various rooms. she packs up her bag and turns on the alarm. ext clinic night bethany exits and locks the door behind her. she starts walking. as her feet tread lightly toward her car, three small shadows move toward her. bethany throws her bag on her car roof and rumages through her purse for her keys. she hears something and stops. roller blades can be heard moving slowly across the asphalt of the parking lot. bethany turns quickly. nobody's there. she looks around, a bit peturbed. bethany calling into the darkness god, what time do you people quit and go home?! let's just save it for tomorrow, alright? there's no response. then there's the noise of wood being tapped against the ground. bethany peers into the darkness, looking for the source. suddenly, a skater whips past her, slamming his stick into the back of her knee. bethany goes down. another skater whips in and slashes at her, but she ducks. the stick hits the car door above her. she rifles through her purse madly until another skater whips by, dragging her purse away with his stick. bethany looks up. the stygian triplets are lined up menacingly, a few feet from her. they tap their hockey sticks in unison on the ground. bethany jumps up and faces them defensively. the triplets emit an unholy shriek and charge at her. and from out of nowhere, a large figure swoops down from above, landing on the ground between bethany and her menacers. the triplets stop short and regard the figure curiously. the large figure whips into a defensive stance, batman style. the stygian triplets look to one another. they shrug and charge anew. from behind the rock still large figure, a smaller figure leaps into the streetlight, shrieking, flying through the air, busting into a flying kick. he lands before the middle triplet and open palm punches him twice in the face, grabbing his stick from the falling child's hand and tossing it into the air behind him. the stick sails through the night air and is snatched by the grip of the large figure, who twirls it under his arm, and then back out like a sai. he swings it out before him, knocking the other two triplets off balance. the smaller figure back flips into the larger figure's arms and kicks his feet into the faces of the two wobbling triplets. they go down, and the smaller figure leaps forward with a shriek, landing between the fallen pair, elbows into their backs. the flrst struck triplet leaps out of the darkness at the large figure, screaming something unholy. the large figure catches the kid by the throat and quickly head butts him, tossing him to the side. the large figure sways for a beat and then shakes it off. the small figure collects the hockey sticks and throws them into the distance. he kicks at the falien triplets as they scurry away. small figure calling after them go back to your paper routes, you punk fucks! more to himself snoogans. the large figure saddles up beside the small figure. they look at one another and shake hands. small figure dude, i know they were just kids, but we kicked their fucking asses! bethany stares, mystified. she grabs her purse from the ground. bethany where... where did you learn to do... that stuff?! small figure from this comic book some guys made about us. long story. bethany beat i don't know what to say... or think. the figures turn into the light, revealing the faces of the heroes for the first time two very familiar faces. small figure say you'll offer us sex as a reward. bethany who are you? the large figure lights up a smoke. the small one extends his hand. small figure jay. and this is my business associate, silent bob. biethany well thank you for being out here so late... come to think of it, what are you doing out here so late? freezes wait a second are you protestors? jay what's a protestor? bethany you're not with the fight to lifer's? jay you mean those fucks with the signs and pictures of dead babies? shit no. me and silent bob are pro choice a woman 5 body is her own fucking business. bethany then i don't mean to sound ungrateful but what are you doing hanging around? jay we're here to pick up chicks. bethany a bit stunned excuse me? jay we figure an abortion clinic is a good place to meet loose women. why else would they be there unless they like to fuck. bethany taken aback oh. right. well, i should be going. thanks for the rescue... i think. jay shocked wait, wait, wait we just saved your ass, and you're just going to take off? what the shit is that? bethany i had a weird night last night, and now tonight's not shaping up to be any better. i think i should go home, take some percosets, and lay down. opens her car door jay to silent bob how about that shit? fuck this town, man i'm going back to jersey and selling weed they start walking at least there i can get turned down while trying to make myself a profit. bethany freezes. metatron's words echo in her ear. she shakes her head. bethany to herself you've gotta be kidding me. thinks for a beat then hey! wait! she runs up to them. they whip around and raise their fists defensively. bethany sorry. beat would you... i can't believe i'm doing this... inhales deeply would you... like to have a drink with me? jay's face lights up. he punches silent bob in the arm. jay see?! i told you if we hung around outside that place we'd get laid! thank you! looking skyward thank you, god! int seedy gun shop night various guns are laid out atop a glass case. oc salesman now this piece is nice. it's not lightweight, but one look at it and nobody i mean nobody is going to fuck with you. try it on. loki picks up the gun. bartleby and the salesman look at him. loki it's a lot more compact than the flaming sword, i'll say that much. bartleby it's the weapon of choice these days. loki it seems unimpressive. at least the sword looked intimidating. how can i strike fear into the hearts of the wicked with this? salesman oh, i get it. you want to become a vigilante, right? like batman or something. loki batman never uses guns. off gun i don't know. it feels impersonal. bartleby then don't use a gun. just lay the place to waste like sodom and gommorah. now that was something. loki oh yeah, for you maybe. you got to stand there and read. i had to do all the work. bartleby what work? you lit a few fires. loki i rained down sulfur, man. there's a subtle difference. bartleby sure. loki are you kidding me? any moron with a pack of matches can start a fire. raining down sulfur takes a huge level of endurance. mass genocide is the most exhausting activity one can engage in, next to soccer. to salesman i'll take this one. salesman five seventy five to walk with it right now. loki starts sifting through his wallet. bartleby soccer? int diner night an english muffin is covered with a knife full of jam. bethany raises the bread to her mouth and takes a bite. she glances at the oc pair and stops chewing. jay and silent bob study her intently. jay smiles widely, anticipatory, and nods. all three sit at a small table near a window. bethany puts the english muffin down and brushes off her hands. jay's feet are moving a mile a minute. bethany are you both from around here? jay i'm hard as hell. bethany do you live in the city? jay do you have a friend for silent bob, or are you going to do us both? if so, i'm first. i hate sloppy seconds. bethany you're a man of principle. where do you come from? jay we used to live in a small town in jersey. real small town. we practically knew everybody. bethany what brought you to mchenry? jay hollywood. bethany beat hollywood? jay oh yeah. see, we used to sell smoke in front of this video store. and one day this fuck wants to rent a video. so we did, only we didn't have anyplace to watch it. so we went to the mall and popped it into a vcr at macy's and sat on the floor and watched it. it was called 'sixteen candles'. did you ever see it? bethany yes. jay so the next day we rented 'the breakfast club', and then 'weird science' where these two fucks have a chick that'll do anything for them and they don't do nothing because it's a pg movie. but then we got thrown out of macy's when we watched 'pretty in pink', because of this bitch. points to silent bob bethany to silent bob what'd you do? jay you know how at the end the red headed bitch gets together with her dream guy at the prom? bethany nods well pussy here starts fuckin' sobbing all sorts of loud and shit. and the manager's like "get the hell out of here!" and i'm like "fuck you, you bald cocksucker! i'll kick your lard.. bethany speeding him along so what exactly brought you to illinois? jay oh yeah. see, all these movies take place in a town called shermer, in illinois. and there's all this fine bush running around, and we could kick all the dude's asses because they're all whiney pussies. except judd nelson he was harsh. but best of all, there was no one selling weed. so i says to silent bob "man, we could live phat if we were the blunt connection in shermer, illinois!" so we collected some cash we were owed, and caught a bus. but when we got here, you know what we found out? there is no shermer in illinois. what kind of shit is that?! fucking movies are bullshit! bethany and now you live here? jay fuck that. this berg sucks. everyone talks with a stupid accent so you don't know what they're saying, and it's too fuckin' cold. we were talking about taking off. until we met you, that is. kisses her hand bethany retracts her hand right. so how much longer are you staying here? jay until you're ready to skip out and make with the sex. bethany no. how long are you staying in mchenry? jay we're leaving tomorrow. bethany where are you going next? jay to silent bob jesus this broad asks alot of questions. to bethany back to jersey. we've been going straight for like five years now. it's about time for us to retire or something. enjoy our salad years. no more adventures. bethany i see. sips her coffee jay yeah. so do you do anal? is it true that chicks fart if you blast them in the ass? bethany i didn't ask you out for sex. jay i'll take head. bethany i don't know why, but... composes herself ...i want to go with you. jay what, like steady? you wanna be my girlfriend? shrugs to silent bob alright, but silent bob has to live with us and you pay the rent. bethany no, i want to go with you to new jersey. jay really? you're the only chick i ever met that wanted to go to jersey. most chicks try to get out. bethany when can we leave? jay wait a second! what is this shit? are we going fuck or not? bethany you're going to lead me somewhere. jay me lead you? lady, i don't even know where i am half the time. if we're not going to fuck then what the hell did you ask me out for? bethany someone told me i'd meet you, and you'd take me somewhere i was supposed to go. i didn't believe it until you said that thing in the parking lot. jay what the hell are you babbling about? all i know is we saved your ass from some angry fucking dwarfs and you promised us se.. to silent bob didn't this crazy bitch promise us sex? to bethany ...and now you're telling me that i'm supposed to take you somewhere, and you don't even know where it is? bethany beat do you believe in god? jay horrified holy shit you're a jehovah's witness! all the fine chicks that come out of that place, and we gotta get the one jesus freak! to silent bob, getting up let's go... bethany grabbing his sleeve no. wait... jay pulling back i'll scream rape. bethany i can pay you. jay quickly sitting back down pay? bethany for being my guide. you were going to leave anyway all i'm asking is to tag along and see where it leads. i'll pay a hundred bucks and all expenses. jay thinks to silent bob i feel like i'm han solo, and you're chewie, and she's ben kenobi, and we're in that fucked up bar. to bethany what about sex? bethany no sex. jay alright, but let's say we're caught in a situation where we've got like five minutes to live, like a bomb or something is gonna go off would you fuck us then? bethany in that highly unlikely situation? beat yeah, sure. jay yeah? you slut. noonch. to silent bob what do you think? silent bob shrugs. jay stands up. jay alright. but i'll drive. ext main highway night bethany's car roars overhead, speeding down the road, reving awfully loudly. int bethany's car night the speedometer reads ninety five. jay drives, eyes glued to the road. happy as hell. silent bob smokes to his right. bethany sits pinned against the back seat, wearing an uncomfortable and dubious look. she struggles to lean forward. the engine still races. bethany yelling over engine noise what gear are you in? jay not looking back gear? ext highway night jay, silent bob, and bethany sit on and against the car. the hood is open and smoke billows out. jay defensively well what do i know from shifting?! like i ever drove before! silent bob shrugs and smokes. bethany walks away, shaking her head. jay chicks. silent bob nods and extracts a tool from his jacket. he begins working on the engine as a crossountry bus races by. int bus night bartleby and loki sit in the back. bartleby reads a map and loki stares at the gun in his lap. a couple makes out in the seat in front of them. bartleby we have to pass through three more states to get to new jersey indianna, ohio, and pennsylvania. loki with a very important stop in cleveland. bartleby oh right. the angel of death returns. sounds like a bad movie. loki movies are bullshit. and don't start with me, airight. the last time you bugged me about my job, you got us sentenced to life in wisconsin. looks out window all this time we've been down here, why didn't we ever leave the cheese? bartleby he said to stay where he put us. we feared worse punishment if we disobeyed him again. loki where were we afraid he'd send us? bartleby new jersey. loki now that, my friend. is irony. bartleby beat you know, maybe you're wrong about this slaughter. how can you even be sure of what incurs the lord's wrath these days? times change. remember when eating meat on friday was supposed to be a hellworthy tresspass? or when people weren't even supposed to shop on sundays? loki that stuff was small potatoes. the major sins never change. and believe me i can spot a commandment breaker a mile away. bartleby sure. loki you don't believe me? looks around eyes fall on kissing couple there. there's one. bartleby off couple so what? they're kissing. loki adultery. bartleby that's a stretch. how do you know they're not dating? loki you'd know better than me let's hear it. bartleby oh, i know the truth. but let's see how boned up on the job you really are. loki a test? bartleby of sorts. so what's your proof? loki he's wearing a wedding band. bartleby so? maybe that's his wife. loki no married man kisses his wife like that. you get married and the passion dies, man. don't you ever watch talk shows? bartleby what are you talking about? loki a guy makes his best plays when wooing. when the object of his desire is won, there's no need to expend the effort anymore. he relaxes, satisfied with the spoils of victory, which he then decides isn't so victorious because he's saddled with a life mate. bartleby very romantic sentiment. loki that's the problem romance. you think about it back in the old days, nobody got married out of quote, unquote, love. people married for property', dowries, or to procreate to immortalize oneself through offspring. when did all this love stuff start? what the hell happened to the status quo? bartleby the troubadors. loki lionel richie's old group? bartleby no, that's the commodores. the troubadors were wandering minstrels and dramatists that sang melodramatic and sappy songs of undying love. loki sounds like the commodores. bartleby the troubadors made 'love' fashionable. and their influence altered the balance in a significant fashion. until them, people got married because they had to. after them, people started 'falling in love'. romantic courtships became the norm. what started out as simple entertainment made such a dramatic impact as to forever alter the way society operates. loki that's human beings for you easily misled. from the garden of eden to the 'thigh master' thev believe what they're told. i'm telling you one day they're all going to watch one too many john hughes flicks and start looking for shermer, illinois. bartleby be fair. humans are dumb, but not that dumb. off couple so is it adultery or not? loki thinks to couple excuse me. the couple stops kissing. the man looks at loki. loki are you married? man puzzled why? loki just curious. man holds up ring finger what do you think? the man shakes his head and goes back to kissing. bartleby offers loki a "satisfled?' expression. loki taps the man on the shoulder. man breaks kiss pissed what?! loki to her? man what? loki are you married to her? man not that it's any of your fucking business, but no! why?! loki looks at bartleby. bartleby rolls his eyes. loki calmly shoots the man in the head. screaming ensues. ext highway night the bus skids to a halt. people flock off in a panic. scattering. after a beat, bartleby and loki deboard and stand there alone. bartleby you're such an asshole. loki don't blame me, man. blame the commodores. bartleby troubadors. ext roadside of highway dawn silent bob still tools around under the hood, jay hands him various wrenches. bethany steams off to the side. jay to silent bob she's pissed, dude. she'll never fuck us now. well, maybe you, but definitely not me. beat let me know how she is. bethany turns on him nobody is fucking me! you got that?! jay at least not in this car. bethany sighs i'm sorry i dragged you to that diner. i don't know what i was thinking. but being that i've decided to go home and not to new jersey, this is where you two get off. jay you're breaking up with us? bethany good luck with finding molly ringwald, or whoever it is vou're looking for. sorry for the inconvenience. good bye. bethany starts walking away. jay stares at her, shocked. jay to bethany who the hell do you think you are, lady? you can't go around breaking people's hearts like that! we fell in love with you! guys like us don't just fall out of the sky, you know! on cue, a naked black man falls from the sky. landing between the two parties. bethany and jay stare at him. the man is face down, sooty, and ashen as if he's just been in a fire. bethany drops to her knees and rolls him over, feeling for a pulse. jay looks down, then looks skyward as silent bob joins him. jay yelling up a beautiful, naked woman doesn't just fall from the sky, you know?! beat to silent bob was worth a try. silent bob nods. bethany presses her ear to the man's chest. bethany no heartbeat. jay do you think he fell from a plane? like 'alive'? did you ever see that flick? bethany starts cpr'ing him i think there would have been more of a mess if he fell from that high. man not necessarily. bethany, jay, and silent bob leap back. the man sits up and rubs his face. jay kill it!! kill it!! man that sounds familiar. bethany jesus, are you okay? man rufus. and yes, i'm fine. jay he's the fuckin' undead!! cut his head off!! rufus getting up with bethany's help what happened to your car? you clock ninety in first gear or something? jay mind your own fucking business! rufus to jay listen, goldie locks, what i just did was not easy and it gae me a fucking migraine. now if you don't pipe down, i'm going to rip your balls off. jay hiding behind silent bob i knew it! mother fucker wants to eat my brain! bethany i think he was aiming a bit further south. to rufus speaking of which, you're awfully nude rufus, is it? rufus rufus it is, miss. to silent bob hey, tubby... how's about lending a brother your coat 'till i can find my own threads? jay looks at silent bob. jay dude, he fell out of thin air! silent bob shrugs and passes his coat to rufus. jay bugs. jay dude, his dick is gonna be rubbing all over the inside of your armor! rufus to silent bob i'll do my best to tuck it back, brother. silent bob nods. something oc catches his eye. he stares oc and exits. bethany where exactly did you fall from? rufus some might say grace. jay to silent bob dude, he's talking about your mom. jay turns to see that silent bob isn't there. silent bob peers at a large bush at the road side. the bush rustles slightly. oc bethany you know, normally i'd have a hard time with this, but somehow you falling out of the sky seems to go hand in glove with some of the other stuff i've been deaiing with. oc rufus believe me you ain't seen nothing yet. silent bob peers closer at the bush. suddenly a stygian triplet leaps out at him, pinning him to the ground with his hockey stick. the other two triplets leap on top of jay and bethany rufus grabs the one off bethany and hurls him to the side. jay manages to reach into his jacket and pull out a copy of penthouse. he rolls it up and starts beating the kid in the head with it. silent bob gets his hands under the stick that pins him and pushes it up hard, into the triplet's forhead, knocking him off. he rushes to jay's side and plies the other triplet from his throat, hurling him oc. the triplet silent bob fought 'punctures' the air with his stick and rips downward, creating a 'hole'. he grabs his friend and leaps into it, disappearing. jay and silent bob look at eachother, blink, and embrace passionately. the triplet that rufus threw rushes rufus from behind hockey stick in lancing position. without looking back, rufus reaches behind himself, grabbing the stick and swinging it and the triplet over his head in an arch, letting go. the last triplet goes sailing through the 'hole', and it seals shut. bethany, jay and silent bob are in various wide eyed states of shock. jay alright what's with you, lady?! that's the second time you got attacked by the fucking mighty ducks! rufus wiping off hands man, they're onto you bad, already. i got here just in time. bethany how can you be so composed? we were almost killed. rufus death is a worry of the living. the dead only worry about decay and necrophiliacs. jay see! i told you he was the undead! ru fus not the undead, the dead. i died. christ told me the secret to resurrection once when we were at a wedding in canna, but i got drunk and forgot it. bethany incredulous wait. wait, wait christ? you knew christ? rufus knew him? i saw him naked. bethany let me guess you're another angel? rufus no, i'm a man just like you and him. looks at jay well, maybe not like him. at least i was a man. been dead for nearly two thousand years. here. pulls rolled up paper from behind his ear jay no wonder he saw jesus homey's rockin' the ganj. bethany unrollingit it's not a joint. looks at it i can't read this. rufus it's sanskiit. it says "rufus see you in two years. jesus." freaked me out because he basically told me when my number was up. took the flavor out of the remaining years. look, we gotta keep moving. if we stay in one place long enough, those things are liable to come back. what say we continue this discussion over something to eat? bethany snaps wait a second! inhales deeply i'm a rational woman, okay. all i want to know is where you, and those... kids came from?! rufus they came from hell. i came from heaven. walking away let's start walking. jay walk? do you know how far we are from anywhere? rufus back in the old days with j.c., we walked everywhere. did you ever hear of a fat apostle? exits bethany looks to jay and silent bob for some guidance or stability. jay what's an apostle? bethany shakes her head and exits. jay and silent bob shrug at each other. ext mooby corp. building dawn a large office building in downtown cleveland. the city. hasn't started up yet. a pickup truck pulls curbside in front of the structure. bartleby and loki jump out of the back and pat the side of the truck. offering waved thank you's to the driver. as the truck pulls away, loki pulls out the article and looks at it. he looks up at the building and nods to bartleby, smiling. they head toward the front doors. int qualnt suburban house dawn a ringing phone is answered by the unseen figure in the chair. we move from the seated figure, passing by the dead bodies of the home's original owners, and come to a stop on the bruised and worn stygian triplets seated on a couch. they look scared. figure hello?... no, they're not in right now... i'm the phone guy... i'll leave them a message... bye. the figure hangs up the phone and rises. figure you say the girl has already met the prophets? the stygian triplets nod. figure she grows closer to learning her true identity. if that happens, our plan is jeopardized. i can't afford to go into the field that might compromise us further. the best course of action is to insure that our parcel is not found. and being that i can't even trust you enough to kill a girl, i'm left with no choice but to seek outside assistance in guarding our package. sighs i'm going to have to summon the golgothan. the figure exits. the stygian triplets register shock. ext fast food joint dawn rufus now wearing some funky new clothes carries a tray of fast food to an outdoor table. sitting already are bethany, jay, and silent bob. rufus off new clothes it's amazing the shit people throw out. didn't i tell you i'd find some threads? a car full of teens whip past them. teen yelling from passing car garbage picker! rufus waves to them thank you. to group what's that mean? jay it means they saw you pull that shit out of that dumpster. rufus so it's a good thing, then. handing coat back to silent bob i appreciate the loan, brother. you can have this back. jay to silent bob lucky you. rufus off food damn, i remember when all we used to have for breakfast was fish and goat's milk. what do you call this shit? bethany to rufus egg mcmuffin. now how about you start explaining some things to me. rufus like what? bethany like for starters who the hell are those kids that keep attacking me? rufus nasty little bastards called the stygian triplets. they're not really related. when they were alive they were a trio of kids that snatched a neighbor's toddler and smashed it's skull in "just to see what it looked like" i believe was their defense. they were killed in a car wreck on the way to a detention center. bethany so they're dead too? rufus you'd be surprised how many dead people are just walking around we're stubborn bastards. thing is, those kids are supposed to be in hell. which means that someone wants you out of the picture so badly they're willing to summon demons. bethany is it those two angels i'm supposed to stop? rufus couldn't be. they're not evil they're just stupid. jay to bethany wait a minute are you going to listen to this shit? we don't even know who this guy is. for all you know, he's in with those fucks. they both showed up at the same time. bethany i hate to say it but he does have a point. how did you know where to find us? rufus you know what the dead do with most of their time? they watch the living. especially in the shower. jay to silent bob i can't wait to die. bethany and why are you watching me? rufus because you're the one who's going to help me get some changes made in that book you all hold so much stock in. jay hustler? rufus the bible. bethany what's your beef with the bible? rufus i'm not in it. jay neither are any of us, but you don't hear us bitching. rufus but i'm supposed to be in it. i was the thirteenth apostle. bethany i've been going to church my entire life and i've never heard of a thirteenth apostle named rufus. rufus see? you know all about the other twelve apostles white boys, i might add. but no mention of rufus. and why? cause i'm a black man. but that's just my pet peeve. i mainly want to correct a major error that you people are basing a faith on. bethany what's that? rufus jesus wasn't white he was black. rufus bites into his sandwhich. bethany, jay and silent bob look at him and then each other. jay bullshit. i've seen pictures of jesus, and he has blonde hair and blue eyes. rufus wiping hands that's what's particularly insulting. between the time when he established the faith and the church started to officially organize, the powers that be decided that while the message of christ was integral, the fact that he was black was a detriment. so all renderings were ordered to be eurocentric, even though the brother was blacker than jesse. bethany if that's true, then why'd he get written about while you were left out? rufus well he is the son of god, right? it's kind of hard to have the new testament without him. so you fudge a few facts and put a spin on his ethnicity. leaving me out's okay because there's still twelve apostles to choose from. jay i don't buy it. rufus that's what the good people of antioch were saying when they stoned my ass. bethany you were martyred? rufus that's one way of putting it. another way is to say i was bludgeoned to shit by big rocks. see christ told us apostles to go out into the world and spread his word. antioch was already garnering a big christian following, so i got sent there. and was a big hit. they loved hearing about jesus' message, and how he was the redeemer. but when i mentioned he was black, the whole town turned on me called me a liar and shit. i pressed the point, and before i know it, i'm wearing stones although not to accessonze. beth any why didn't you just let the point go when you saw how they were reacting? rufus because it's part of the facts. white folks only want to hear the good shit life eternal, a place in god's kingdom. as soon as they hear they're getting all this from a black jesus, they freak. and that my friends is called hypocrisy. folks just can't accept a black savior. to silent bob you going to eat that hash brown? bethany so you went to heaven? rufus shit yeah it was the least the brother could do. i gave up my sheep and followed his ass around jerusalem for three years. and in all that time, did i ever get laid? hell no! but i didn't bitch, because i was into his message. and while the message is what counts, folks should know that he was black. that's why i'm going to help you find stop those angels from getting to that church in exchange for you helping me with my campaign. bethany how do you know about that? rufus heaven's a pretty boring place, and anything that breaks the tedium is news. the unmaking of existence is what you might consider a great tediumbreaker. besides, there isn't much i don't know about you. bethany i find that hard to believe. rufus when you were five you let a kid from next door piss on your hand. jay shocked you did that? bethany yeah... but i never told anyone about it. rufus neither did he. he died of leukemia two years later. his name was... bethany ...bryanjohnson. rufus your exploits no matter how inane are well known in heaven. probably in hell, too. bethany rubs her temples and exits oc. rufus watches her go. jay intrigued tell me something about me. rufus preoccupied with the oc bethany you masturbate more than anybody else on the planet. jay shit, everyone knows that. tell me something nobody knows. rufus you think about guys when you do it. rufus gets up and exits. silent bob looks at jay, shocked. jay not all the time! bethany sits on a swing in the kiddie jungle gym, shaking her head. rufus joins her. rufus i'm sorty if i spooked you. bethany i just feel... violated. like my life isn't mine exclusively. rufus that's the way it goes with celebrities. bethany what are you talking about? i'm a nobody. i'm just a quiet girl from the suburbs who counsels pregnant teens. rufus you sound like christ. he had the same reaction when he found out who he was, minus the quiet girl from the 'burbs angle. and like him, i'm sure you'll come to terms and do what you're supposed to. bethany why not get the pope or someone holy like that? rufus just because a guy wears a funny hat, doesn't make him the right man for the job. only certain hands can deliver the world from the brink of destruction. last time it was jesus this time it's you. bethany why me? rufus can't say yet. but the question is are your hands capable enough to carry the burden. it all rides on you. bftrany rubbing her temples two thirds of me wants to forget about this and go home. you know, yesterday i wasn't sure god even existed. and now i'm upto my ass in christian mythology. rufus god hates it when it's referred to as mythology. bfthany well then let's ask the quote, unquote 'prophets' what we should call it instead. looking oc concerned now where did those two assholes go? int strip joint it's your typical strip club. one woman on a stage and a crowd of men paying way too much attention. the place is dimly lit with red lights and chock full of smoke. off to one side, a dee jay spins records, blasting the music. the crowd is rather thin. jay and silent bob sit at the stage. their eyes glued on... the dancer a gorgeous, shapely vixen with very little clothing on, and growing littler by the second. jay pokes silent bob, who produces a wad of bills. they skim off a nice pile and stow the rest. they spread their piles neatly on the bar. the dancer smiles and starts dancing toward them. jay holds up a five spot and performs his own little seductive dance th it. he stands at the edge of the stage, 'rating. the dancer slinks over and jay stuffs the five in her g string. she rubs his head and slinks away. jay humps silent bob's chair, excitedly. bethany and rufus come up from behind them. bethany hits jay. bethany shouting above the music what are you doing? jay proving to this bastard that i ain't gay. bethany what? rufus long story forget it. but we should get moving. how can we get to new jersey? bethany i had a car. she slaps jay upside the head, but riveted by the dancer he doesn't feel it. bethany to rufus we could go by train. rufus looking oc sounds cool. bethany there's a phone out there. i'll call for reservations. rufus is now also riveted by a table dancer off to the side. bethany no, it's okay. i can handle it. rufus half nods. bethany shakes her head and exits. the dancer gyrates on the stage, revealing more and more of herself. jay pounds on the stage, hoots, and dances, flashing more bills. across the stage a small gang of bandanna wearing, angry looking blacks watch the oc jay with little amusement. the dancer dances toward them. jay banging on stage sweet thing! hashes another five look what i found! snoog! the dancer smiles as she approaches jay, but is interrupted by more banging. the gang leader has his foot on the stage. he produces a ten dollar bill from his jacket and casually holds it up. the other three members of his posse smile and slap hands. the dancer shrugs at the shocked jay and changes direction, heading toward the gang. jay casts a horrified look at silent bob. the gang leader leans forward, preparing to tip when we hear an obnoxiously loud throatlearing. jay holds aloft a twenty, smiling and nodding. the dancer shrugs at the gang leader and again switches direction. the gang leader looks at his posse, who shake their heads at him, disappointedly. the stage becomes a bidding table, as on one side the gang leader produces two twenties. on the other side, jay staring at the gang leader produces three twenties. the gang leader hits his posse up for more cash. jay hits silent bob up for more cash. the dancer stays in the middle, gyrating and sizing up the best offer. jay then produces the creme'de ia creme' three hundred dollar bills. he sneers at the oc gang leader. the dancer heads over to jay and wraps her legs around him from the stage, gyrating against his groin. jay stares at the gang leader, a victorious smirk on his face. the gang leader shakes his head angrily and jumps out of his seat, producing a gun from his jacket. he fires into the ceiling. the music scratches to a halt and the other viewers scatter toward the door. the gang leader points his piece at jay, his posse backing him up. gang leader you a smart ass, ain'tcha, white boy? come in here and ruin my good time. jay it's a free country. the bitch just came to the man with the most. dancer bitch? jay no offense, baby. gang leader the bitch is gonna be leaving with the man with the most the man with the most led in his piece. while you and tubby are leaving with the most led in your dead fucking carcasses, know what i'm sayin? jay to dancer step to the side, baby. i've gotta slap this pussyass, nino brown wanna be down. dancer to gang leader come on, kane. this isn't necessary. gang leader shut the fuck up and back away from the midget! the dancer moves to the side. gang leader to jay now i believe you were about to apologize. i believe you were about to intone some pleas for mercy. you were about to say "please, mister kane, i didn't mean to disrespect you in your club. please accept my most humble apology. bethany comes back and sees the mess. she moves to rush to jay's side, but rufus holds her back an oc jay laughs. jay leans on silent bob, laughing. the gang stares back, angrily. jay you want an apology? gang leader cocks gun give me at least one "i'm sorry," and ltll put a kill shot through that thick fucking skull of your's. otherwise we go slow and long in the pain dispensation. jay beat zips jacket closed know what i'm doing? gang leader no. what you doing? jay i'm closing my jacket, so that when we start this up, i don't get your filthy fucking brain guts all over my shirt. you know why? gang leader why? jay because you can't get shit stains out of flannel. what i'm saying is that you got shit for brains. the gang leader and his posse stare silently for a moment. gang leader well i appreciate you breaking that down for me, but i got it without the explanation. jay no. no, i don't think you did get it. see, there's gonna he some nine's firing in here, and when the bullets stop flyin', your cunt lip ass is gonna be all holes and smoke. you think you can draw on me and walk away? fuck that. and fuck you you punk ass monkey bitch! yeah, i called you a monkey! maybe if you kiss my dick all nice before i cap you, i'll bring a coconut to your funeral and lay it on your grave stick a straw through it and stick the other end in the ground. your lips'll reach. the gang stares, mystified. rufus and bethany can't move they're so frightened. jay you think every white boy cowers at your ass? shit, if i don't fucking plant you watermelon my muscle here will. thumbs at silent bob what do you think he is? my boy friend? i love chicks. so he's gotta be with me for one reason to watch my back. silent bob doesn't talk in words he speaks in bullets. re's all quiet cause he's thinking about how he's gonna take you and your bitches out quick enough to piss on the bullets in your bodies before they cool down. you know why? because he likes to see the hot steam coming off them when he sprays them down. come to think of it, im tired of talking to your dumb ass you probably don't even understand big words like 'piss'. tell you what i'll let him explain it to you. to silent bob silent bob shoot these punk monkey bitches. silent bob slowly raises his hands in a surrender fashion. jay looks at him. jay what are you waiting for?! silent bob shrugs. jay flabbergasted you don't rave a gun?!? silent bob kind of nods jay shocked what the fuck do you mean? all this time we've been together, and you don't have a gun?!? silent bob indicates the negative, sheepishly. jay that's just fucking great! do you think i would've said all that if i'd known you didn't have a gun?!? beat hunhh?!? silent bob raises his eyebrows remorsefully. the gang snickers and smiles. gang leader what was that about a coconut? jay shakes his head and glowers at silent bob. jay no gun! what the fuck kind of muscle are you?! all this time and you got no gun! gang leader oh boys! we have some unfinished business here. jay sheepishly can we talk this over? gang leader tell you what you got thirty seconds. then i cap you. talk all you like. bethany goes to make a move, but rufus holds her back, shaking his head. he puts a finger to his lips to quiet her and points back toward the action, smiling. jay fumes. jay to silent bob i can't believe you. to gang leader do me a favor. points to silent bob shoot this piece of shit first. to silent bob disgusted no gun! suddenly, they both snap into a momentary trance. zombie like, jay and silent bob step to the turntables behind them. jay puts on headphones and begins scratching a record. a familiar tune begins. the gang watches, perplexed. silent bob whips around, microphone in his hand, and begins to sing. silent bob hey, hey, hey!!! it's fat albert! and i'm gonna sing a song for you!! and bill's gonna tell you a thing or two!! we'll have some fun, now! with bill and all the gang! learning from each other while we do our thang! the gang slowly goes from perplexity to enjoyment. the gang leader softens and smiles, adding a slight nod of approval. jay provides back up. jay na , na, na! gon na have a good time! silent bob as fat albert hey! hey! hey! jay na. na. na! gonna have a good time! bethany and rufus look on. amazed. rufus i thought she looked familiar. bethany who? rufus he nods toward the stage serendipity. bethany looks to the stage. the dancer is the serendipity in question. she wipes sweat from her brow. int. mooby corp. boardroom day oh, this isn't your standard boardroom this is mooby corp., home of mooby, the golden calf which can only be described as a bovine variation on barney sickeningly simple and very non threatening. a large table sits in the middle, a media center behind the huge chair at the head. the walls are adorned with framed posters of mooby, playing with kids, mouth agape in a stupid smile. at the center of the table is a large, gold plated statue of the insipid creature. doors open and the boardroom fills with suits six men, one woman. they chatter and take their seats. after a beat, whitland, the ceo, enters, taking his place at the head of the conference table. whitland good morning, shoppers. slaps a file on table has anyone seen the over night's? an anticipatory hush fills the room. whitland we creamed 'em. a cheer and applause goes up from the group. whitland smiles. whitland reading from file and last night was a rerun, which says to me that with the six months we have to ready and promote the 'very nlooby christmas' pay per view special, we can produce history making numbers. the record is held by that shock jock's new year's thing, but i see no reason why our little cash cow can't supercede those numbers and... stops and sniffs the air do i smell onions? bartleby and loki sit behind the thrall on a black leather couch. loki is carving something out of an onion, while bartleby looks on. whitland and the rest of the board stare at them. whitland i didn't realize we had guests. who are these gentlemen with? the other suits shrug and look to one another for an answer nobody has. whitland to bartleby and loki excuse me. loki continues carving. bartleby looks at his friend and shakes his head. loki lifts his head without looking up. loki very distracted hmm? whitland may i ask what you're doing in my boardroom? loki still preoccupied my friend just has a few words for you, and then we'll be on our way. heading to jersey, you see. now by the decor, i assume i'm guessing correctly that this is the corporate headquarters for mooby productions international? whitland you guess correctly. now, may i ask who the fuck you are and again what the fuck you're doing in our conference room? loki to bartleby, still not looking up you may proceed, mon ami'. bartleby i can't believe you. to whitland i just want to start off by apologizing. my friend here has a penchant toward the dramatic, so he's making me do this. usually, i don't even involve myself in his affairs, but he hasn't done this in awhile, so he wants... loki frustrated just read 'em their rights already. bartleby sighs circling the table mooby, the golden calf. created by nancy goidruff a former kindergarten teacher in nineteen eighty nine to fill a gap in the saturday morning schedule on local network k rel bought by the complex corporation in nineteen ninety one and broadcast nationally as the 'the mooby fun time hour', it picked up a large following of children, ages three to eight, and spawns sixteen records, two theatrical films, eight prime time specials, a library of priced to own video cassettes, and bicoastal theme parks dubbed 'moobyworld'. beat did i miss anything? whitland and company stare for a beat. whitland you forgot 'mooby magazine'. is there a point to this? bartleby grimly you and your board are idolators. whitland and company stare dumbfounded. loki finishes carving and stands beside bartleby. loki to bartleby how could your forget the magazine? bartleby rolls his eyes. loki turns to the whitland and holds up the sculpture. loki it's you. sets sculpture on table do you know much about voo doo? fascinating practice, very close to satanism, but not really much of a religion no doctrine of faith. just an arrangements of superstitions, the most well known of which is the voo doo doll. sneezes waits continues a mock up of an individual is subjected to various pokes and prods, and the desired result is that the individual will feel the effects. whitland to nearest board member call security now. loki throws the knife at the table, severing the phone cord. loki all lines are currently down. bartleby to whitland again . i apologize for my friend's... loki frustrated would you just get on with it?! bartleby miffed to whitland you are responsible for raising an icon that draws worship from the lord. you've broken the first commandment, but more than that, i'm afraid none of you passes for a decent human being. your continued existence is a mockery of morality. looks to loki loki nods like you mister bernard. stands behind board member last year you cheated on your wife of seventeen years, eight times twice with prostitutes. you even had sex with her best friend while she was at her garden club meeting and you were supposed to be watching your kids. loki in the bed you and your wife share, no less. the board member stares in disbelief. loki nods to bartleby and he moves on. bartlby and you, mister newman. loki sifts through compact discs. he pulls out one entitled 'mooby mania' and pops it into a player. a simple children's song echoes through the room. bartleby you got your girlfriend drunk at last year's christmas party, and then paid a kid from the mailroom to have sex with her while she was passed out, just so you could break up with her guilt free when she sobbingly confessed the next morning that she cheated on you. she killed herself three months later. you sent flowers to her wake. the board member's face is frozen. bartleby shakes his head and moves quickly around the table. bartleby not liking his job mister pereira disowned his gay son mister turran put his mother in a third rate nursing home and used the profits from the sale of her house to purchase an oriental rug for himself mister barker flew to the phillipines on the company account to have sex with an eleven year old boy mister bloom okayed the production of mooby dolls from what he knew were unsafe and toxic materials because it was less costly. bartleby stops at the female board member and looks at her, relieved. bartleby you, on the other hand, are an innocent. you lead a good life and have never misused your power here. she stares at bartleby. loki pats her on the back and urges bartleby on. bartleby but you, mister whitland. you have more skeletons in your closet than this assembled party. i can't even mention them aloud. bartleby leans over and whispers something unheard into whitland's ear. whitland goes green. bartleby steps back. loki stands beside whitland. loki you're her father, you sick fuck. whitland begins sobbing. bartleby to loki can i go now? loki cheerily rubbing his head go on, you crazy kid. bartlebv exits. loki turns menacingly on the others. loki with the exception of miss pryce, there is not a decent human being amongst you. do you know what makes a human being decent? beat fear. and therein lies the problem. none of you has anything to fear anymore. you rest comfortably in seats of inscrutable power, hiding behind your false idol, far from judgement lives shrouded in secrecy even from one another. but not from god. loki goes to exit but pauses. he turns around. loki i forgot my little voo doo doll. looks at whitland wow. it really does look just like you. maybe, if i believed enough... loki begins moaning menacingly, slowly waving an open palm over the figure. whitland looks at it horrified, then at loki, then back at the figure. he sweats and shifts in his seat eyes pinned on the figure. loki lets out a shriek and smashes the figure with his fist. whitland freezes, eyes closed. slowly, he opens his eyes unharmed. loki i don't believe in voo doo. loki swiftly exits. the board members sit in awed silence. then the doors burst open and loki storms back in. loki but i do believe in this. gun blazing, he takes out the male board members, including whitland, in a flurry of bullets. the remaining female board member covers her head with her arms. loki hangs his arm at his side and touches her hair. loki smiling it's okay. you've done nothing wrong. they were bad men. you are a pure soul. she looks at him, terrified. he smiles back. then his expression hardens. loki but you didn't say 'god bless you' when i sneezed. he quickly puts the gun to her head. she slams her eyes shut. oc bartleby cautionary loki! loki freezes and looks oc. he grimaces and holsters his piece. loki to woman sorry. force of habit. he surveys his handiwork and exits. the female board member slowly opens her eyes and looks around. int strip joint later jay and the gang leader sit together at a table, surrounded by the other gangsters and silent bob. they laugh and chug their '40's. gang leader to gang watch this shit. to jay do it again, g. do the mush mouth. jay swigs his beer as 'mush mouth' hey buh, fat buh, al buh bert. the gang laughs hysterically. gangster 1 fat albert like a mother fucker and shit! bethany, rufus, and serendipity huddle around a table further away. rufus elated i forgot you were down here! how long now? serendipity three years this august. what about you is this another temporary expulsion? you and your 'christ was down' campaign? bethany what does that mean another expulsion? i thought you came down here specifically to help me? serendipity is that what he told you? rufus gets thrown out constantly at least once a month, ethereal time. they always bring him back, but only after a few days of peace and quiet free from that black nationalist rhetoric. rufus joking artsy fartsy bitch. serendipity who you calling artsy fartsy? rufus to bethany serendipity here used to hang with us sometimes back in jerusalem. bethany let me guess the fourteenth apostle left out of the bible because she's a woman. rufus the girl's not a woman. to serendipity no offense. bethany oh, those weren't tits i saw jay cozying up to? serendipity tugs on boobs what, these? you should know better than anyone at this table that tits don't make a woman. rufus hell, the tubby, coat wearing mother fucker's got tits don't make him a woman. serendipity aside from an intuitive knack for accessorizing, what traditionally defines a woman falls between two things her legs. but as you can see... serendipity stands and unbuttons her jeans, dropping them slightly, revealing yet another smooth, sexless crotch, quite like metatron's. serendipity i lack definition. oc jay hey! they're getting a free show! serendipity pulls her pants back up and sits down, smiling at the oc party. bethany weary oh god. another angel. like metatron. serendipity how do you know metatron? to rufus how does she know metatron? rufus this is the last scion. serendipity beat you're kidding. rufus don't you see the resemblance? serendipity stares at bethany a bit. suddenly nervous oh shit. if she's been tapped, then something's up. bethany i'm confused. rufus bethany, serendipity here isn't technically an angel, nor is she by any means a human being like i was and you are. serendipity amen to that. swigs her beer and spits it out bethany then who is she? serendipity not who what. i haven't always been part of the anthropomorphic club. i used to be an abstract. bethany now i'm really lost. rufus serendipity's an idea. serendipity try all ideas. bethany meaning? serendipity i'm a muse, stupid. bethany stares at her for a beat, then at rufus. rufus nods affirmatively. bethany i can't take much more of this. downs her beer rufus to serendipity she's now met a seraphim, a dead man, and a muse. you can appreciate her frame of mind. bethany to serendipity so you what inspire people? serendipity what just went down with your friends over there you don't think they thought of that themselves? i knew kane's weak spot for fat albert and passed it along to the boys. rufus if she hadn't interceded, they'd be chalk lines right now. bethany you made them sing that song? serendipity i offered them a solution out of the hole they dug for themselves. thankfully, they took it. bethany are you kidding? those two are so dense, they wouldn't get a good idea if it was given to them in a specially marked box. serendipity dense people are the most open to suggestion it's vou so called intelligent folks that have a hard time accepting a good idea. rufus ain't that the truth. bethany prove it. give me a good idea. serendipity if i do, and you accept it, then you'll have confirmation that you are as you say dense. bethany beat alright. so you're a muse. so what kind of people do you inspire besides stupid ones? serendipity i used to specialize in entertainment literature, theatre, so forth. bethany movies? serendipity in some cases, i'd do everything but bang starlets on the casting couch. bethany what have i seen that you've been involved with? serendipity off the top of my head everything. well almost everything. for example i'm responsible for nine of the ten top grossing films of all time. bethany nine? serendipity the one about the kid, by himself in his house burglars trying to get in and he fights them off? bethany nods i had nothing to do with that one. somebody sold their soul to satan to get the grosses up on that piece of shit. rufus which brings us to the next logical question what are you doing stripping? serendipity well you remember why i left, right? rufus you were tired of doing all the work and getting none of the credit for your ideas. serendipity and sick of watching incapable people take brilliant inspiration and turn out real trash. to bethany so i opted to quit being a muse and write for myself. i gave my two weeks notice. got a body, fifty bucks, and got sent out into the world to make my fortune. bethany so what happened? serendipity writer's block. rufus writer's block? serendipity can you believe it? me a muse, for god's sake! i sit down in front of the typewriter, and what do i get? nothing. blank page. 1 can't even write a grocery list. bethany what about what you did with jay and silent bob? you inspired them. serendipity that's the cosmic joke. i can give out a zillion and nine ideas a second, but i can't keep any for myself. her quirky sense of humor. bethany whose? serendipity god's. bethany you're saying god's a woman. serendipity was there ever a doubt in your mind? bethany the possibility never presented itself. he's always referred to as a him. serendipity i didn't write it that way my job stops at the idea stage. the person that holds the pen adds their own perspective, and all the pen holders were men. one of the drawbacks to being intangible is that you have no say in the editorial process. rufus another one's that you can't jerk off. serendipity to bethany see. these being male dominated times, the pharisees and high priests felt threatened by the idea of a woman lording over them and controlling their fates. so they made sure that she became a he doesn't stop with god the whole book is slanted and gender biased a woman's responsible for the first sin, the fall of man, and the expulsion from eden. a woman cuts sampson's coif of power, a woman asks for the head of john the baptist. read that book again some time women are painted as bigger antagonists than the fucking egyptians and romans combined. bethany stunned god is a woman... serendipity i don't know what the big surprise is women are the only gender that can create life, just like god created the universe. who else but a mother could have the infinite patience with impudent children that god has with humanity. a woman can give birth to and nurture both sexes, so psychologists theorize that women are the only gender both sexes can feel completely comfortable with and the faithful both male and female feel at ease with god. in time of trial, our first instinct is to implore the aid of the almighty, just as when you're a child, the only person who can make it all better is... bethany ...mom. god, it makes sense. rufus to serendipity shit, you still have a knack for words. serendipity not really useful in my new line of work. rufus what about that? why'd you choose stripping? serendipity in an effort to create something artistic that i could claim as my own. see, i've been able to fool myself into thinking this isn't stripping, it's dancing and at least dancing is artistic. but she won't even give me that much the way god designed dance, it's the only creative act which results in no tangible product. unlike paintings, poems, movies or most other arts forms. when the dance is over, there's nothing to show for it nothing to save and enjoy... or sell. takes a drink believe me, the irony wasn't lost on this muse. rufus how long are you going to keep this up? serendipity believe me, i think about eating crow and going back to the grind from time to time. but i'd hate to give her the satisfaction of my playing the prodigal. and it sucks because i can't stand being flesh anymore especially this halfway crap. not only do i have to take care of the aesthetic the showers, the haircutting, the pit shaving but i can't take advantage of the benefits like getting laid or using my period as an excuse not to get laid... conspiratorily to bethany ...the only true boon to having a period, from what i understand. rlfls well we could sure use your help. we need someone with good ideas. you remember a couple of angels named loki and bartleby? serendipity sure the angel of death and his squeamish pal with a conscience. rufus they found a way back. serendipity shocked god no. not the plenary indulgence loop hole? bethany you know about that? serendipity i always knew that thing was a bad idea. leave it to the catholics to destroy existence. rufus bethany's catholic. serendipity my condolences. bethany what do you have against catholics? serendipity ever been to a catholic mass? bethany once or twice. serendipity it's like bad sex up, down, up, down, kneel, leave. and the whole time you'd rather be watching t.v. you people don't celebrate your faith you mourn it. bethany so if we're so wrong, then what's the right religion? serendipity when are you people going to learn? it's not about right or wrong it's a question of faith. it doesn't matter what you believe in just that you believe. jay and silent bob join them, wearing bandannas. jay look! they made me and silent bob part of the gang! suddenly, the doors behind them blast open, pouring light into the oncim room. a huge figure stands in the doorway, backlit and acting as a sepia filter the light and vapors surrounding him are brown. figure deep, gutteral hiss not born... shit into existence. our group stares at the oc brute. jay sniffs the air. jay who farted? serendipity sweet christ, someone wants you bad. bethany what do you mean? what's that smell? rufus don't tell me that's who i think it is. serendipith the stench should say it all. bethany who the hell is it?! serendipity an excremental the golgothan. bethany a what? rufus a shit demon. the golgothan moves slowly from the door, toward the group. no man no... man. ..of...woman.. born... the gang join the others. they hold and cover their noses. gang leader to jay loading his piece friend of your's? jay to group is this smelly fuck with us? rufus he's coming for bethany. jay to gang leader smoke that mother fucker like it ain't no thang! gang leader i knew i'd get to wax someone today. represent! the gang charges oc, guns blazing, while we hold on the group. suddenly, the room is filled with screams and wet, slurpy noises. the group goes from staring wide eyed, to shielding themselves. the noise stops and jay and silent bob look up. the gang lay about noman in trashed, dead positions. they are covered in murky, creamy crap their wide, white eyes frozen in horror. noman scoops a finger full of muck off the leader and eats it, smiling. our heroes start backing up slowly, as to not be noticed. jay to silent bob i guess we're in charge of the gang now. bethany what the fuck happened?!? serendipity go for the bar. we might have a few seconds his short term memory's for shit. jay so's the rest of him. rufus no chance of taking him down? serendipity gee. i don't know. let's ask the gangstas. rufus you're right let's book. they dash. noman snaps to attention and throws it's arm at them, launching a huge glob of shit through the air. jay running seeing it coming shit!!! everyone leaps behind the bar. the shit flies over them and slams against the mirror above. immediately, it stretches blob like over the entire frame, and burns in an acidic fashion. jay stares, horrified. jay now that... is some powerful shit. serendipity pulls at the floor, yanking open a door. serendipity quick! get in! bethany, rufus, jay and silent bob leap into the darkness. serendipity follows, pulling the door shut on top of them. int basement our heroes cower beneath the floor door. jay what is that thing? serendipity you ever hear of golgotha? bethany skull place. the hill where christ was crucified. serendipity peering above yeah, well it wasn't just christ up there the romans crucified everybody on that hill. ahd christ excluded, they were all criminals killers, brigands, thieves, rapists. and whenever the crucified expired, their bodies would naturally lose muscle control, spilling bowel and bladder in the process. and the result is that walking pile of crap up there the golgothan shit demon hell's chief assassin. and he's here for you, girlie. silent bob stares at a crack in the doors. a milky drop of shit drips through it. bethany what are we doing down here, then?. any second now he'll be blasting through that door! serendipity shit's brainless. if we can sit tight for a couple of minutes, he'll forget what he came for. suddenly another drop falls. then another. then a steady stream. silent bob taps rufus and points. rufus reacts. rufus indicating trickling shit looks like it's been taking memory training courses... serendipity off trickle jump!!! the five leap from their perch on the steps, just as the doors explode, dumping a torrent of crap on the steps. the body of muck morphs into noman anew. noman lumbers toward them. the group, attempting to gain their bearings on the floor, crawls backwards. noman pulls a piece of himself off, rolling it around in it's hands. serendipity if anybody still remembers any prayers, i suggest you start whipping them out. silent bob stares wide eyed up at the approaching demon. and then, something occurs to him. he stops backing up and stands. the others continue moving back. bethany bob, get down! jay! jay to silent bob you tubby retard! get your ass back on the floor! silent bob stands like a statue in the golgothan's path. the demon snarls a smile, moving ever closer. silent bob reaches into his coat and pulls a small canister out. he points it at the beast. a mist shoots out into the face of the golgothan. it pauses, looking confused. the shitball in it's hand drops to the floor, and then so does it. bethany, rufus, serendipity, and jay climb to their feet and crowd around silent bob. they look to the fallen, unconscious behemoeth, then to silent bob. bethany off bob's canister what was that? silent bob holds the can out to them it's a small, trial size can of glade air freshener. jay looks at it, then at silent bob. bethany reading can 'knocks strong odors out.' rufus way to go. tubby. bethany why would you ever carrs this? jay farts. silent bob sprays the freshener at his ass. the others look at jay. jay what?! rufus to serendipity who has dominion over this thing? serendipity only lucifer can order a killing. but something doesn't make sense this thing never travels alone with it's intelligence level, lucifer'd never allow it. it usually has some kind of backup. rufus can you get some answers? serendipity i can give it a shot. bethany what's going on? rufus serendipity's going to talk to that demon. jay cool! can we watch? serendipity not a good idea. demon's can wreak havoc on the weak minded. jay fuck you weak minded! me and silent bob can talk to him in his own language! see...? makes the universal metal sign he'd understand this. serendipity shakes her head to rufus whoever sent this might send mor. i suggest you take the princess and get as far away as possible. to bethany i'll do what i can to extract some info from shit boy here. if there's anything helpful. i'll get it to you somehow. bethany hugs her thank you. and... you're a great dancer. serendipity i'm a better juggler. to jay and silent bob you know you're supposed to be prophets. right? start acting like prophets. you should have seen that thing coming. jay to bethany why the hell are we getting yelled at?! serendipity just watch out for bethany. go. bethany leads jay and silent bob up the stairs. jay to silent bob man, bitch thinks just 'cause she's good looking, she can tell us what to do. bethany she told me that if you behave, she'll give you head. jay excited yeah?. bethany oh, a demon'd have a field day with you. serendipity and rufus watch them disappear up the steps. oc jay beat shut up. oc bethany you shut up. serendipity to rufus nice girl. rufus comes from good stock. serendipity you haven't told her yet? rufus not the right time. serendipity how uncanny is the resemblance? those eves, the lips... rufus the nails. serendipity looks at rufus. he smiles. she hits him, laughing. he cracks up. serendipity blasphemer. then, the oc golgothan makes a groggy, grumbling noise. serendipity shit. you'd better go. i'll take care of the trash. rufus hugs her good luck. rufus runs up the steps. serendipity tunrs on the golgothan. serendipity alright, stinky let's see what you know. ext church day a suited man stands at a podium, addressing a small thrall of reporters. man and now, to speak on behalf of his holiness' 'catholicism wow!' campaign, ladies and gentlemen of the press, i give you the driving force behind the movement cardinal glick. the reporters clap as cardinal glick takes to the podium. he strikes one as more of an agent than a man of the cloth as he removes his wayfarers. glick thank you, mister flanagan one of this parish's chief patrons, who donated the stained glass likeness of our lady of gleeful misery that welcomes you as you enter the church every sunday. off index cards ladies and gentlemen of the press few would deny that the catholic church has fallen behind somewhat in the times. catholicism usually strikes the average person as an old fashioned remedy for the ills both moral and psychological of a society that has since left it's stringent rules and ornate rituals on the heap with 45's and eight track cassettes. and in an effort to disprove that, the church has appointed this year as a time of renewal, both of faith and of style. so, it is with great pleasure, that i present you and your parish mere days away from it's centennial celebration and the continental united states, via satellite with the first of man revamps that the 'catholicism wow!' campaign will unveil over the next year. applause now, what does this mean for the average church goer? are we going to throw out the rule book and adopt a hippie mentality in regards to our faith? no. we're simply talking about a few minor alterations to both the aesthetic and theoretical aspects of a religion that boasts one of the highest membership numbers on the planet. a few applause ring out. glick smiles. glick thank you, thank you. so what are we talking about here. well, for example... pulls out crucifix while it has been a time honored and traditional symbol of our faith, we have decided to retire the highly recognizable, yet wholely depressing symbol of our lord, jesus christ, crucified. why? well, look at it. would you relish being a member of a group that uses a man nailed to two pieces of wood as it's masthead? of course not who would? i've got enough downers in my daily routine without having to deal with this visual everytime i go to worship. lnstead, the church is going to adopt this new, more soothing and inspiring sigil, which we feel is in line with our new outlook. glick pulls a cover off an object to his right a two foot figure of christ smiling and giving the 'thumbs up'. the crowd buzzes. glick see? isn't this better? how could you not feel just great walking into a church and seeing this behind the priest a positive reinforcement that whatever we do, god thinks is 'akay'. i love this thing, it's so... reporter i interupting cardinal glick has the church given any thought to it's position on john doe jersey? will he be given the right to die with dignity? another buzz rises from the crowd. glick rolls his eyes. glick c'mon people. we're not here to talk about that. it's an issue we stand firm on euthanasia is a big no no, just like abortion. murder's murder. why won't you people accept that? besides, we're here to talk about this little guy your friend and mine... the happy jesus. can't you just see it on chains around people's necks, and as the new background in avant garde, mtv videos? int bus terniinal day the image of the 'happy jesus' thumbs up and all is captured on a t.v. monitor, a label reading u'e via satellite red bank. new jersey' at the bottom of the screen. bartleby and loki look up at it, then at one another. loki and you say siskel and ebert have no influence over this culture. bartleby we're getting out of here at just the right time. these people are nuts. loki off t.v. and that's the church we're heading to? bartleby steps to ticket window if you want to go home... to woman in window two tickets to new jersey, please. woman jersey's sold out, sir. bartleby are you sure? woman the computer says. loki come on how many people can possibly be going to new jersey? woman enough to fill a bus. bartleby to loki you had to drag that judgement out. you couldn't just hit and run. to woman when's the next one? woman same time tomorrow. bartleby what?! doesn't this place warrant at least two buses a day? woman i take it you've never been to the garden state. next. bartleby and loki look around. loki there's no one else here. woman then i guess it's lunch time. she shuts her window loki we should have learned to drive a long time ago. infinite celestial power and we can't catch a bus. bartleby just shut up, this is your fault. loki you can either lament over our mass transit folly, or you can listen to my suggestion. bartleby it's your suggestions that prevent us from negotiating what should be a simple matter of catching or staying on a bus! loki why fall victim to gravity when we can just as easily rise above? bartleby stares at him fly? loki we got wings, right? let's use them. oc voice i wouldn't suggest that. the pair spin and gawk. azrael leans in the doorway. he removes his hat, revealing two stubby horns. azrael you wouldn't want to stand out, now would you? int strip joint basement dusk noman is tied to a chair in the middle of the floor. serendipity draws a circle around him with lipstick. once finished. she takes a glass of water and throws it into no man's face. it roars to life. the golgothan shakes of his daze, turning his attention on serendipity. noman the muse. they told us you were up here. serendipity matter of perspective. noman. i like to think of it as 'down here'. i have a few questions for you, sir. noman free us from these binds, that you may have answers. serendipity heads toward it okay. stops sarcastic oh wait. i'm smarter than that. noman lets out a bellow. serendipity face it, big guy i'm not releasing you until i get answers. this can go hard or easy. the sooner i get what i want, the sooner you'll be free. now, you can start by telling me why you're on this plane? noman beat liquidate the last scion. serendipity see? that wasn't so hard. now who sent you? was it lucifer? noman laughs in a sinister fashion. noman our master is no one and all. for a time, he will be prince of this world and the fate of those who dwell in it will be at the mercy of his whimsy. and then he will sever reality and crush existence, like a thumb punctures a fontanell, giving peace to those who've been without for so long. serendipity did bartleby and loki send you? noman resist no further, muse. deliver over to us the conflicted one, that this world may die screaming. no power divine or inherited threatens the crusade. you cannot win. soon will rise of the cry of the abandonned, begging your god to put an end to the madness. and only as being becomes not, will they know that the god of abraham lay dormant while the dream perished in a blink. your god is not dead he's brain dead. serendipity she, you chauvinist bastard she's brain dead. and no she's not. stop trying to be so spooky. tell me who sent vou, or i'll use whatever influence i have below' to make hell even worse for you. noman you speak of azrael. he laughs we pity you. muse. you're still playing the old game. the one that could have made good on your threat is gone. serendipity what do you mean. gone? he escaped? noman no soul escapes hell, but one. beat as if it's heard something would that i could cross the threshold of your confining circle, i would crush your half life throat. but my master does not abandon me to this mockery of a prison. we will come back for the girl. and when we do, it will take more than fragrant mist to keep our hands from crushing her head. noman goes stiff and then limp. his body begins to melt. int toy store day azrael leads bartleby and loki through the aisles, passing tons of stuffed animals. bartleby jesus christ, azrael how'd you get out of hell? azrael i told them i was coming up on a routine possession. i don't have much time. if they figure out my ruse, they'll come looking for me. bartleiby you lied? loki go figure. him. a demon. to azrael why'd you bring us in here? azrael because you two fucks are inches away from getting yourselves caught. going around killing people, about to uncase your wings... don't you have any idea what's going on? loki we're going back home. azrael are you so clueless as to think you can just waltz back into heaven? bartleby why not? we're going back clean. az rael let me let you in on a little secret, okay everyone is looking for you. both sides above and below. the orders are to terminate you on sight. bartleby shocked why? azrael you're pissing people off, that's why! word on the grapevine is that god's pissed off at your presumption, and i know lucifer's pissed because you assholes might just succeed where he's failed so many times, making him look bad. bartleby so they're going to kill us?!? azrael they're going to try'. that's why you have to travel incognito tone down your behavior, stay off their respective radars. go about this thing more subtly. quit killing people that's high profile. and for god's sake, don't uncase your wings until you have to transubstantiate. because the minute you let them flap, legions of thrones and hordes of demons will fight each other over who gets to kill you first. looksoc shhhh! a woman and her small daughter walk past. while the woman looks at the items on the top shelf, loki pulls off azrael's hat and taps the daughter on the shoulder. he points to azrael's horns. the woman pulls the daughter further down the aisle, oblivious to the trio. daughter mommy, that man had horns. azrael grabs his hat and puts it back on. azrael that's the kind of shit i'm talking about! loki oh, lighten up. bartleby still reeling i can't believe they want to kill us. azrael believe it, boys. they've even got the last scion looking for you. loki you're kidding! azrael this is big. i'm telling you. your re entry is a thorn in a lot of sides, and they'll stop at nothing to prevent it. loki if that's the case, then why aren't you hunting for us too? azrael because i want to see you go back. you were both given a raw deal almost as raw as mine. if you make it back, then i figure there's hope for me. looks around in the meantime, i suggest you find an alternate mode of transportation. if anything else comes up, i'll contact you. bartleby thank you, azrael. you're a true friend. azrael would you expect anything less from a demon. i have to get back to the pit, before they get suspicious. turns to leave loki hey az what's it like down there. is it as bad as they say? azrael give you a hint they've been playing 'mrs. doubtfire' continuously for two years now. exits loki looks at bartleby shit man that is punishment. ext contryside night the train chugs through the darkness. int train night bethany and rufus sit across from one another. they stare out the window. rufus how you coping, kid? bethany it's weird. just when i think i've got a handle on things. something wholely unbelievable presents itself. sometimes i wish i had just stayed home. rufus you sound like the man. bethany beat what was he like? rufus jesus? black. bethany besides that. rufus the brother was centered. i mean, he was god, right? but i think he felt left out because he was more than human, you know? we used to sit around the fire me and the other guys and we'd be talking about what ass holes the romans were or getting laid... bethany some things never change. rufus ...and he'd just sit there listening and smiling. we'd ask him why he never joined in the convo, but he said he just liked to hear us talk about anything. said it was like music. i think he just wished he had unimportant shit to talk about himself. bethany how does he feel now? rufus he still digs humanity, but it bothers him to see the shit that gets carried out in his name wars, bigotry, but especially the factioning of all the religions. he said humanity took a good idea and, like always, built a belief structure on it. bethany having beliefs isn't good? rufus i think it's better to have ideas. you can change an idea. changing a belief is trickier. life should malleable and progressive working from idea to idea permits that. beliefs anchor you to certain points and limit growth new ideas can't generate. life becomes stagnant. that was one thing the man hated still life. he wanted everyone to be as enthralled with living as he was. maybe it had something to do with knowing when he was going to die. but christ had this vitality that i've never encountered in another person since. you know what i'm saving? bethany he was big on life? rufus it was more than that. he was the only person i ever knew who never engaged in that most ancient of life affirming activities. bethany sex. rufus debate. that's the only way people know how to reaffirm that they're alive by debating. in all it's forms. people spend their whole lives debating we fight about who's right and who's wrong, we fight ourselves, we fight each other, we fight death, we fight over beliefs, we fight over fights. we believe that to stop debating in any fashion is to stop living and give up. people say that life's a struggle, but it's not. life is living. i'm even guilty of it myself, the way i go on about christ's ethnicity, fighting for the truth to come out. and i'm dead. even in death, the only way i know how to live is through debate. that's sad, isn't it? betiiany not if you believe it's important for people to know. rufus a belief's a dangerous thing, bethany. people die for it. people kill for it. the whole of existence is in jeopardy right now because of the catholic belief structure regarding this plenary indulgence bullshit. and whether they know it or not, bartleby and loki are exploiting that belief, and if they're successful, you, me. all of this... ends in a heartbeat. beat all over a belief. bethany nods. rufus looks around. rufus i haven't seen the moron twins in awhile. bethany they went to the lounge car to smoke. getting up i'll go find them make sure they're not getting into any trouble. rufus i'm going to catch a few z's. forgot how tiring living can be. bethanv heads off rufus looks out the window, then shuts his eyes. int lounge car night bethany enters and spots jay and silent bob, talking to an unseen party. bethany you two aren't getting into any trouble, are you? jay nope. just about to smoke a bowl with our new friends. you in? bethany and who are your new friends? jay they just got in at the last stop. silent bob moves over, revealing the new friends. jay this is larry and barry. bartleby and loki smile at bethany. loki jay tells us you're going to sleep with him. ext train tracks night the train rushes over head. int lounge car later loki, jay, and silent bob pass a joint under the table and take quick hits, trying to remain casual. jay pounds the table happily. bartleby and bethany lay on either side of the table in their booth. bethany you can smoke up with them if you want. you don't have to keep me company. bartleby it's a long trip. there'll be plenty of time later. beat so why are you heading to jersey? betrany there's just this thing there i'm supposed to do. how about you? bartleby we're going home. bethany do you two live together? bartleby unfortunately. do you live with those guys? b ethany god, no. not they just sort of adopted me. bartleby they're funny as hell. the big one never says a word. bethany i wish the little one would take a cue from him. but they're okay, as far as stoner's go. bartleby lo... larry's taken an immediate shine to them, and he usually hates people. betiiany how long've you two been together? bartleby awhile. he's great company. he can be a little flaky sometimes, but we've got a lot in common. bethany how'd you meet? bartleby we were stationed together. bethany see? that's beautiful. and everyone's always up in arms about this 'out in the military' issue. bartleby what do you mean? bethany well there's all that macho bullshit about it being 'this man's army'. and you two meet and hook up while in the service, which is so special because it's so hard to meet anyone you can seriously relate to... bartleby catches on you think we're lovers?! oh no. no, we're not gay. bethany laughs oh god, i'm sorry'. i just assumed... bartleby no. we live together and all, but at the end of the night, i go to my room. and he goes to his. beat why? do i come off as gay? bethany laughing no, not at all. i'm sorry. my ex husband kind of fouled up my relationship awareness barometer. bartleby you're divorced? bethany that's the nice way of putting it. i consider it being dumped. bartleby i was dumped once. more or less. bethany it's terrible, isn't it? don't you constantly question your value like why was i so easy to cast aside? didn't i have merit? bartleby and you wonder if the other party's going to come to their senses and call you back. betiiany the worst is that i still think like a couple. after all these years, i still have the 'we' mentality. bartleby mine grew out of what was really a stupid misunderstanding. a misunderstanding that grew into a total withdrawl of communication. abandonment. and even though it was years ago, there's not a day that goes by that i don't wonder what went wrong. and then it hits me i was replaced by someone. a lot of someones. bet hany and they always tell you it'll hurt less with time... bartleby ...when actually, it hurts more. bethany beat you know what we need? we need some drinks. a lot of drinks. do you agree? bartleby whole heartedly. int train car night rufus continues to slumber. int lounge car night jay is asleep on silent bob's shoulder, drooling slightly. loki talks with silent bob. loki i'm telling you, man it's all about organized religion and society's battle against it. the rebels are fighting the empire, right? now the empire is led by whom? darth vader? no. it's led by the emperor. and the emperor is a practitioner of the force, albeit the dark side of the force. and the force is basically a religion. silent bob nods so the entire galaxy is under imperial rule, and the imperial government is run by this old religion. what you have, then, is a theocratic government a government run by the church. so luke, han, and leia are fighting that government to liberate the galaxy from the pious grip of what is, in essence, holy mother church. silent bob nods in understanding. bethany and bartleby slump in their booth, the table loaded with empty glasses. bethany is quite tipsy. bartleby sips his drinks, and surreptitiously spits it out. bartleby you're saying you still go to church? bethany laughs every sunday. bartleby does it do anything for you? bethany thinks gives me time to balance my check book every week. bartleby see? that's what i'm talking about. people don't go to church and feel spiritual. they go to church and feel bored. but they keep going. every week. out of habit. bethany or in habit, if you're a nun. bartleby oh... that wasn't very funny at all. bethany a friend of mine told me that church is like bad sex it's messy and there's no foreplay... starts laughing no. that's not it. i am so buzzed. bartleby when do you think you lost your faith? bethany i remember the exact moment. i was on the phone with my mother, and she was trying to counsel me through what was happening to me and my marriage. and she said something like "there's always a plan." and i... just got so angry. i mean, i know she was talking about god, right god had a plan. but i was like "what about my plans?" you know? like, don't they count for anything? i had planned to grow old with my husband and have a family wasn't that plan good enough for god? beat apparently not. swigs her drink how about you? when did you lose your faith? bartleby me? years ago. one day, god just stopped listening. i kept talking, but i got the distinct impression that he wasn't listening anymore. bethany she. and how do you know she was listening in the first place? bartleby thinks i guess i don't. bethany i hate thoughts like that. but they occur to you with age. when you're a kid, you never question the whole faith thing god's in heaven, and he's... she's always got her eye on you. i'd give anything to feel that way again. which is why i guess i let myself get talked into this pilgrimage. i needed proof. and the opportunity presented itself to find out if it is like they told us in catholic school. and i gotta tell you the last few days, i've come across some interesting people that lend toward convincing me. bartleby where's this pilgrimage to? int train car night rufus stirs. he looks around and stretches. int lounge car night bethany and bartleby continue their discussion. bethany you'd never believe me if i told you. bartleby try me. bethany alright. but i warned you. okay i'm going to this church in new jersey. bartleby really... int train car night rufus heads toward the back of the car. he opens the door between the cars and exits. int lounge car night bethany and bartleby talk further. bartleby's intrigued. bethany i was told that i'm supposed to stop a couple of angels from entering the church. they're trying... laughing this sounds so stupid... they're trying to get back into heaven. int train car night rufus passes through another car and opens the door at the end. int lounge car night bartleby grows very tense. bethany rattles on, half toasted. bethany see, they got tossed out of heaven years ago, right? and if they get back in, it proves god wrong. and since god is infallible, to prove her wrong would... laughing hard ..would unmake existence! i feel so stupid just saying it. bartleby's eyes are wide. he looks scared. then, a calm falls over him. betrany laughing but the thing i don't get... is how do i stop an angel? two, even! i guess i'm supposed to talk them out of it or something. bartleby surreptitiously slides a knife off the table. bartleby maybe you're supposed to kill them? bethany breaks into hysterics. int train car night rufus pulls open another door and exits. int lounge car night bethany's still cracking up, oblivious to the on the defensive bartleby. bethany oh yeah! kill them! even if that was the case... i mean. how do you kill an angel? bartleby i don't imagine it's much different... slowly lifts the knife ...from killing a human... the door behind them slides open. rufus steps in. rufus where the hell is everybody? i wake up, and... he sees bartleby. they both freeze. bartleby the apostle! rufus holy shit! bethany stumbling to her feet rufus, i want you to meet my friend, barry... bartleby leaps out of the booth and grabs bethany, holding the knife to her throat. bethany chuckiing barry! don't be such a show off! rufus take it easy, bartleby. just let her go and let's talk about this. bartleby after all this time, this is what it comes down to slaughtered by this meat puppet?! rufus there doesn't have to be a slaughter. we can work this out... bethany is that a knife? bartleby oh. we can work it out, alright. i'm going to work the blade in and out of her thorax! calling over shoulder loki! loki catches the action and reacts. loki holy shit the apostle! he leaps from the table. jay stirs and wakes up. jay half asleep i didn't come in you, i swear... looks around bartleby, with bethany in hand, faces off against rufus. loki joins them. loki to rufus what are you doing here? bartleby they're here to thwart our journey home, my friend. this one just told me that she's supposed to stop a couple of angels from entering a church. loki you think she was talking about us? bartleby i'd say there was a pretty good chance. what do you say, rufus we're to be liquidated? rufus it doesn't have to go down like that! you haven't thought about the consequences of re entry! loki consequences, schmonsequences. bartleby i have to agree with him. no one not you, and especially not this finite lifer no one is going to impede us. we're going home, regardless of whose pride it may hurt! rufus it's not a question of pride, it's... bartleby loki kill the girl loki beat what are you, high? bartleby do it! loki i can't kill her if she hasn't done anything, you know that. and it looks like she's 'on the job', so to speak... bartleby fine! i'll kill her myself... a hand lands on bartleby's shoulder. jay oblivious to the situation hey man now it's your turn. we got enough for a fatty boom batty, biggety blunt! bartleby turns the knife on him. jay not quite getting it yet we having cake or something? loki backhands jay, stunning him. jay dazed in grates... jay drops to the floor, out cold. silent bob grabs loki and hurls him down the aisle. rufus grabs bartleby's knife hand. they struggle. bethany collapses. rufus tubby! the door! silent bob jumps over loki and opens the back door of the car. he grabs loki by the collar. loki wait, man! can't we talk about this?! he throws loki out the door, off the train. rufus squeezes bartleby's hand. bartleby drops the knife and punches rufus in the face. bethany jumps on bartleby's back, covering his eyes. they careen down the aisle, toward silent bob. he pulls bethany off bartleby's back and kicks him out the back door, off the train. he quickly slams the door closed and leans against it. the bartender stares at him. silent bob brushes off his coat and thumbs toward the door. silent bob no ticket. rufus rubs his jaw. bethany crawls up beside him, breathing heavily. beth any i should have known something was wrong when he paid for all the drinks. int underground garage night a door is kicked open. loki enters, brushing himself off. bartleby follows. loki the apostle is here! bartleby i noticed. loki if that's the case, then chick with him must be... bartleby the scion, i'd imagine. leans against the wall slides down loki in a panic well, shit man! maybe we should rethink this whole thing! i mean, you heard the guy he said there were consequences. azrael tells us we're marked. maybe there's more to this than we thought about. bartleby leans against the wall, sitting on the ground. his demeanor has changed. he stares into space. bartleby there sure is. beat it's them. loki beat what? bartleby shakes his head them. loki thinks the movie about the giant ants? bartleby them the humans. it's what it all comes down to. you know? us against humanity... kind of like that giant ant movie. loki beat are you alright? bartleby i'm better than alright. i've had an epiphany, my friend. loki an... epiphany. yes, well... that'll happen. bartleby when that sweet, innocent girl let her mission slip, i suddenly understood it all everything. for the first time in all these eons, i get it. loki beat get what? bartleby in the beginning, it was just us and him. angels and god. and then he created the humans. and he gave them more than he ever gave us. our's was designed to be a life of servitude and worship adoration. but he gave the humans more he gave them a choice. they can choose to ignore god, choose to acknowledge him. all this time we've been down here, everyday i felt the absence of the divine presence. and it pained me... as i'm sure it must have pained you sometimes, even though you'd gloss over it with jokes. but we feel his absence, and why? because of the way he made us as servants. had we been given free will, we could ignore the pain... like them. loki you know maybe you should take a nap or something. bartleby loki, don't you get it? it's the humans it's always the humans. they were given paradise they threw it away. they were given this planet they destroyed it. they were favored best among all his endeavors and some of them don't even believe he exists. their ego mania corroded hell and made it dark and crimson. looks at loki i asked you to lay down your sword years ago why? because i felt sorry for them. and where did it get us? thrown out. smiles we've paid our debt. don't you think it's time we went home? and to do that, i think we have to dispatch our would be dispatchers. loki wait, wait, wait kill them?! you're talking about the last scion, for christ's sake! and what about jay and bob i mean, those guys were alright. bartleby don't, my friend. don't let your sympathies get the best of you, as they did me way back when. scion or not, she's just a human. and regardless, our sins are forgiven by passing through that arch. no harm, no foul. loki that sounds thin. bartleby fine. we'll cover ourselves. we'll take out a slew of people. maybe amidst the body count, he won't notice. loki oh, that's being realistic. bartleby reaches out and grabs loki, slamming him against the wall. bartleby i'm going home, loki. and nobody not even the almighty himself is going to make that otherwise. bartleby releases loki and smiles. he exits. loki watches him. loki shit. he follows. ext camp fire night another newspaper headline regarding 'john doe jersey' fills the frame. it is lowered to reveal jay, bethany, and rufus sitting around a makeshift fire in the middle of nowhere. jay rolls a joint. silent bob reads the paper. bethany i don't understand why we couldn't stay on the train. you threw those guys off. rufus a very basic strategy if your enemies know where you are, then don't be there. bethany and what's with that? why are we enemies? the guy almost gutted me, for god's sake! jay he had the knife at your throat. to gut you, he'd have to have the knife at your stomach. bethany semantics! semantics that don't even answer mv question. rufus well, i know i'd perceive the person sent to kill me as my enemy. bethany what do you mean, kill? i wasn't asked to kill them just stop them from going into that church. rufus and how were you going to do that? preoccupy them with a game of bingo? bethany i've never killed anything before in my life! jay i'll do it. rufus shut the fuck up, little man you couldn't kill a pint of ice cream, let alone an angel. jay fuck you i can kill an angel as good as the next guy. rufus oh yeah? how' would you do it? jay i'd give him a van damme neck break, like in 'hard target'. d'jou see that flick? rufus ignoring jay to bethany killing an angel's a two step process first you have to cut off their wings. which then makes them human. from that point on, it's the same as killing anything else head or heart, take your pick. bethany you say it as if it's easy. rufus oblivious to jay problem is, i don't think we could pull it off even if we wanted to. all this time away from the divine presence should have made those two weaker and those guys felt far from weak. either that or someone's protecting them someone with juice. bethany so then we're screwed? shrugs shit, that's the best news l've heard in days. rufus this doesn't excuse you from tryng to stop them. bethany count me out. you're telling me they're unstopable, i'm exhausted both psychologically and physically, the odds are against us. i say we kick back and wait for the end a little nonxistence might be just what the doctor ordered. jay i'm with her. i don't care about dying, so long as we're all going to die. rufus what are you babbling about now? jay if i was the only one, that'd bother me because every one else would go on living, having a good time without me. but if we all go at once, that'd be okay, because i know i'm not missing anything. bethany see? you know it's right when even he's making sense. jay besides, she said if we were in a situation where we were going to die in like five minutes, she'd have sex with me and silent bob. rufus so you're suggesting she throw in the towel and let eons of work and history get blinked out of existence just so you can get laid? jay thinks no. just so me and silent bob could get laid. bethany now that we're all but in total agreement on this, i'd just like to finally know why me? jay because you've got nice tits. bethany i wasn't talking to you! to rufus why me? why do i have to do this? nobody's come clean on that. out of everyone on the whole god damned planet. how come i got tapped? rufus looks at her. he shrugs. rufus family ties. jay that show's funny as hell. rufus shut up. to bethany do you know what the apocryphal books are? bethany shakes her head no. rufus most of that information in the bible came from the dead sea scrolls ancient text discovered in a cave ages ago. and when the sanskrit was translated, they discovered data that conflicted with the lore church officials had already established as the basis of their religion. they couldn't refute centuries of dogma, so they thought it best to leave certain passages out sometimes whole books. those books make up the apocrypha. bethany what's this have to do with me? rufus you've never gotten the complete picture. if they had compiled the material together like they were supposed to, you'd get the whole story. but by leaving text out, the church has presented you people with an extremely sterile and unmoving account of religious history. the creation. the entire old testament, the history of christ... let's her take it in forget about my whole black angle for a minute... jay we might if you'd quit bringing it up. rufus backhands jay. silent bob holds jay back. rufus continues, oblivous to jay. rufus he goes from twelve years old to thirty. whole volumes of text about the eighteen year struggle with his divine nature prior to his acceptance of it were thown out, forever lost to the faithful. bethany i don't buy it. integral material like that would give people a better understanding of the nature of god. why leave it out? rufus because it was all closely tied in with his family. bethany his mother and father? rufus his brothers and sisters. bethany beat wait, wait, wait jesus didn't have any brothers or sisters. mary was a virgin that's why it's called the immaculate conception. rufus mary gave birth to christ without having known a man's touch that's true. but she did have a husband. and do you really think he'd have stayed married to her all those years if he wasn't getting laid? the nature of god and the virgin birth those are leaps of faith. but believing a wife never humped her husband that's just gullibility. bethany sudden realization mary and joseph had sex?!? rufus all the time, from what i understand. jesus used to tell me stories about hearing them through the walls when he was a kid. beat so you ask why you got tapped. i'll tell you why a christ was the salvation of this world once before. and you're the closest thing to a christ that still walks. bethany meaning? rufus the blood that flows in your veins shares a chromosome or two at the genetic level with the man you call jesus. hand on her shoulder you're his great grand niece. bethany's jaw drops. a high pitched squeak of a word escapes her lips. jay takes a hit from his joint so... that would make bethany part black. to silent bob man, this is just like when vader told luke he was his father. rufus i just wish i knew what the hell we're supposed to do now? oc voice you must go to the dagobah system and find yoda the jedi master who instructed me. everyone turns around. metatron leans against a tree. metatron god. l've always wanted to say that. rufus the voice. nietatron mimicking his shock the apostle! sits down with them bethany now you show up! where were you when that psychotic bastard had a knife to my throat? metatron i told you you'd be in capable hands you're not dead are you? rufus what are you doing here anyw'ay? metatron i felt left out. everyone's sitting around coming clean, i thought i'd join in with a confession of mine own. jay now who's this mother fucker? rufus this is the voice of god show some respect. jay the voice of god? where's the rest of him? metatron funny you should mention that we're not sure. bethany excuse me? metatron didn't it ever occur to you that this bartlebyloki situation was well within the realm of his control? rufus if that's the case, then why was bethany tapped? metatron you know those constitutionals he likes to take? bethany constitutionals? rufus i think we're beyond euphemisms at this point. to bethany god's a skee ball fanatic. metatron let's not altogether blow some of the mystery that surrounds him, alright? to bethany yes the lord has quite a fancy for the game been playing it for years he assumes a human form once a month and indulges. doesn't tell anyone where he's playing just goes away for a couple of hours. it's quite understandable a small exercise in handeye coordination has been proven as a highly effective means of therapeutic relaxation. and from what i understand, he always gives his free points away to neighborhood children. isn't that sweet? bethany but she hasn't come back from one of those day trips, is what you're getting at? metatron to rufus 'she'? i take it she's met the muse. to bethany no, 'she' hasn't. and we've been unable to locate her. rufus maybe he was killed? human form has that drawback. m etat ron no there's a different sort of foul play afoot, children. whomever has set the renegade angels on their path and is keeping them quite well hidden. is also responsible for the lord's whereabouts. were he to be killed in human form, he'd have immediately returned to paradise. somebody knew enough to keep the body alive, but incapacitate him in another fashion he's trapped in a body. rufus so god's not dead... jay he's brain dead. metatron so it would seem. and as omnipotent as we are above, i have to admit that we're more or less lost without his presence. we've had our people looking everywhere for him. and i tapped her, because i thought we might be able to smoke out whoever's behind this. but whoever it is has been clever enough to send some lackeys after you, as opposed to showing up themselves. rufus can it be lucifer? metatron thankfully they seem oblivious to the situation in the nether regions. i know they're not responsible at least not lucifer. if he was, he'd have made his move by now to conquer heaven. and i know he's not responsible for bartleby and loki because he'd have just as much to lose by their return as everyone else. rufus then what about the golgothan and the triplets? metatron don't be stupid demons aren't exclusive to hell. anybody can summon one. jay excited yeah? silent bob hands jay his newspaper and points. jay reads. bethany don't encourage them. and why did you lie to me? you said i was tapped as a test? metatron no, you said that i just didn't correct you. you were shocked enough how do you think you would've taken it if i told you the face of god belonged on the back of a milk carton? rufus so what do we do now? m etat ron i say we get drunk, kids because i'm all out of ideas. jay off paper why don't we just ask this guy to close the church? metatron i beg your pardon? jay here. hands group the paper bethany reading 'glick takes heat for campaign'? jay it's the guy in charge of the church thing. bethany reading 'cardinal glick has come under fire for the blatant pandering and questionable direction of his church sanctioned 'catholicism wow!' campaign. when asked about his motivations for decommisioning the traditional baptismal fonts in favor of the proposed olympic sized lap pools beneath parish floors, click responded "come on who doesn't like a pool party?" jay maybe you could tell him to shut down the church. if it's closed on that day, those guys can't get blessed or whatever right? metatron good lord he's got a point. bethany i think silent bob had a point. but sure we can go to him and explain the situation somehow. rufus 'we'? you're back in? bethany well, mine is a heritage divine... and i wouldn't want to let down the family. smiles metatron off silent bob well, well, well the prophets finally live up to their titles. silent bob shrugs. jay is trying to look down serendipity's shirt. she back hands him. television screen commercial two cartoon altar boys sift through their bowls of cereal. altar 1 the same boring cereal again? a cheesy cartoon christ floats down from above. christ man cannot live on boring cereal alone! altar i 2 it's jesus! jesus pulls a box of hosties cereal from his sash. christ why not try hosties! cl on cereal pouring into a bowl. it's shaped like eucharistic hosts. milk follows. christ vo new hosties is fortified with vitamins and minerals, topped off with an angelic kiss of frosting that stays crispy in milk! christ's hands on their shoulders, the altar boys down their cereal happily. christ hosties is an important part of any nutritious breakfast, and each one is blessed by a high ranking vatican monsignor good for the body, and good for the soul. but make sure you've confessed beforehand... altar 2 clutches at his throat, gasping. altar 2 i... i touched... m..myself! i'm...s...sorry... christ smiling benignly you're forgiven. altar 2 stops choking and continues eating, happily. christ so try a bowl of hosties! and don't just take my word for it... a cartoon pope pops out of the box, eating a spoonful of cereal. pope they're heavenly! int click's office dlsk a hand switches off the t.v. pan up to cardinal click, all smiles. glick well...? doesn't it pop? bethany. rufus, lay and silent bob are at a total loss for words. jay after a long beat does it come in chocolate flavor? the cardinal picks up a golf putter and begins putting into an overturned glass. glick you see? now this one's got vision! to jay we're rolling out the flavors in september. big cereal month with the kids, back to school and all. bethany it's a bit... startling. glick exactly! and that's what we're looking to do shake these people up a bit, get them motivated. that's the whole point of the campaign. mass attendance is at an all time low in this country. and it's not like we're losing them to the protestants or baptists people aren't practicing at any denomination these days. if we can sell them some show let 'em know the catholic church has some panache, we can win them back even get some new ones. fill them pews, people that's the key. and cross promoting like with the cereal tie in grabs the little ones as well. hook 'em while they're young. sits at his desk, lights smoke rufus kind of like the tobacco industry? glick oh if only we had their numbers. but we are aiming for the same demographic, even though mine is the soulsaving biz. and if i have to play a bit of the devil to bring them closer to the lord, then i'll wear the cloven hooves and carry the pitch fork. jay and silent bob adjourn themselves from the group and approach a hat rack, where the cardinal's cassock and miter hang. jay nudges silent bob. oc bfthany we really appreciate you seeing us this late in the day, your emminence. my friends and i have been traveling all night in hopes of getting a chance to talk to you about the saint michael's re dedication ceremony. the cardinal blows smoke rings. glick you'd like to help out in some way? bethany we'd like you to cancel the ceremony and the re dedication. glick pauses mid ash tap i beg your pardon? silent bob stands alone by the coat rack. jay leaps into the frame, cassock tied around his shoulder like a cape. he strikes a superman pose. oc bethany there's going to be a world of trouble if tomorrow's ceremony goes forward as planned. the cardinal leans back in his chair. click what is this a threat? are you planning some sort of demonstation? pause are you pro choicers? bethany no, the trouble's not from us. it's from these renegade angels who've been stuck on earth since the plagues... rufus side kicks bethany, nonchalantly. bethany uh... these guys who think they're renegade angels. rufl's see padre, it goes down like this the boys believe that by passing through the archway they can get to heaven. granted, it's far fetched, but the brothers are convinced it's the truth. silent bob watches as the miter appears slowly from behind the partition, resembling a shark fin. it 'swims' to and fro, menacingly. silent bob shakes his head. oc glick and you want me to call off the ceremony... for that? bethany leans forward in her seat. bethany well. they're very passionate about it. dangerously so. they could turn violent if they walk through that arch and nothing happens. rufus these guys could blow, and if they do, they're going to take some people with them. call this thing off. click beat who sent you? someone from the council of churches, right? somebody's upset that we're getting so much publicity is that it? who was it? rabbi sloss? rlfls we were sent by him who is called i am. glick cute. standing time to go. kids. play time with the cardinal is over. rufus to bethany worked for moses. bethany stay out of this. to glick your emminence, it's not a joke. these guys are an accident waiting to happen. and if the re edication ceremony goes on as planned... glick ...then these loonies will show up and go nuts, thus endangering the lives of all assembled, including the governor, the press, me, the leaders of the council of churches. heck, let's not stop there, maybe even god himself. bethany you can't say himself it could be a woman. glick rubs temples your passion for all topics insignificant, including the gender of our almighty lord, tests my patience, people. now i'm a very important man with very important matters that demand my attention, so if you'll please... rufus i'm telling you man. this ceremony is a mistake. glick the catholic church does not make mistakes. rufus what about the church's silent consent to the slave trade? bethany and it's platform of non involvement during the holocaust? click beat alright, those were mistakes. but one can hardly hold the current incarnation of holy mother church responsible for oversights of old. now i've indulged you for more time than i should have. please go. bethany but tomorrow... click losing it tomorrow goes off without a hitch! do i make myself clear?! i did not labor two years and exhaust eve ounce of my being to insure that this ceremony be a cornerstone in the most important liturgical event since vatican two just to cancel it at the zero hour at the insistence of a wandering band of pranksters who've targeted me as the focus of their evening's merriment! this occasion is important for the congregation of this parish, for the massive crowds coming for the plenary indulgence, for me, for his holiness the pope, and most importantly for the 'catholicism wow!' campaign! and neither you, nor any other influence short of the hand of god... glares at bethany ... him self will prevent it from occurring successfully! he violently grabs the mitershark fin 'swimming' behind the partition. glick and takeoff my goddamn hat!!! ay slowly looks over the partition. ext seashore the sun slowly rises. the day has arrived. ext turnpike early morning amidst very little traffic, two figures emerge from the shadows on the pennsylvania side. bartleby and loki step purposefully past the green sign that welcomes motorists to new jersey. int bar dawn the place is empty, except for bethany, rufus, jay and silent bob and a bartender. bethany i can almost see the headlines if there were going to be any "existence erased thanks to some prick in a scarlet cape. rufus it's a crime that a guy like him even gets to wear a scarlet cape. jay that ain't no crime. you wanna see a crime? look what we stole from the guy in the dress. to silent bob hand it over. silent bob pulls a golf club from out of his coat. bethany oh my god. we're going straight to hell, i know it. rufus you stole the cardinal's driver? jay i told him to. you know how much these things are worth? that's at least a couple of sodas and a pack of smokes right there. bethany what do we do now? rufus let them keep it. in a couple of hours, it won't matter anyway. bethany not that about bartleby and loki! rufus we have no choice but to try to kill them. bethany to rufus but you said they couldn't be killed. oc voice correction they won't be killed. the gang turns to see azrael sitting at the bar. azrael and just to insure that, we're all going to sit tight, right here, until the two idiots pass through that arch. jay hey...! bethany he wasn't talking about you two. oc voice there's only one idiot here, .azrael... bethany and rufus react, as does the very surprised azrael. serendipity stands in the doorway. serendipity and that's you. azrael the muse. just in time to join us for a drink. bartender suddenly noticing azrael hey. where'd you come from? azrael nothingness. and that's where i'm returning to in approximately... checks watch ...onehour. bartender alright plato sounds like you've had enough drinks already. let's go. azrael come on barkeep just one drink for the road. then i'm gone. serendipity joins bethany and rufus. she whispers. serendipity i was trying to find you to tell you i'd figured out who was behind all this. rufus is that who i think it is? serendipity none other than. bethany who is it? serendipity that's my worst suspicions confirmed. the bartender relents. bartender alright one drink. then you're gone. azrael gimme a holy bartender. bartender never heard of it. azrael to the group he doesn't know how to make a holy bartender. you know don't you, muse? serendipity azrael... don't. azrael ignoring her anybody? well i know how to make a holy bartender. azrael pulls an uzi from his coat and blows a dozen holes in the bartender. the stygian triplets burst through the doors and everyone jumps to their feet, with the exception of the bartender, who dies. azrael get it? serendipity sweet jesus, azrael why?!? rufus rushing him c'mon, demon let's see you try that shit on a brother whose already dead! the stygian triplets cross their sticks in front of rufus to block him as azrael trains his uzi on bethany. azrael joining them you maintain that kind of an attitude and you and the barkeep won't be the only corpses in the room the christ bitch will join you. serendipity i can't believe you're behind this. are you really that stupid?! do you know what's going to happen if those two jerks enter that church?! azrael i'm actually counting on it. and if my calculations are correct, the pawns are moving in to check mate as we speak. everyone stares at azrael, with the exception of jay. he suddenly laughs. jay i get it! holy bartender! that's a good one! ext saint michael's church morning a formidable crowd of parishoners surrounds a small stage, ten yards from the front of the church. banners hang everyere, heralding 'catholicism wow!' as well as the centennial of saint michael's. the media eats it up. cardinal glick stands at the podium, all smiles. he's in mid speech. glick i'd also like to acknowledge this great state's governor, elizabeth dalton, for coming out an helping us ring in the first hundred years of this little parish true. she's a protestant but we won't hold that against her. crowd laughs now, let me just give you a bit of history on this particular little hundred years young house of god... oc bartleby this is no longer god's house. god doesn't live here anymore. the crowd turns, aghast. bartleby pushes his way through them, sheepishly followed by loki. bartleby he's grown weary of your superficial faith and has turned a deaf ear to your lip service prayers. he is no longer amused, and has abandonned you his favorites to the whim of judgement. hypocrites and charlatans prepare to taste god's wrath! loki whispering maybe we should just go. bartleby you wanted your body count, you got it. this lot is rife with sin. we'll judge them all! glick grabs a cop from the crowd and pushes him toward the pair. click these are the two i was warned about, officer mcchee. please assist them off the church grounds. the cop grabs bartleby's arm. cop alright mouthpiece, let's leave the nice cardinal alone and go for a ride... bartleby grabs the cops hand on his shoulder. bartleby mister mcghee, don't make me angry. you wouldn't like me when i'm angry. cop is that so? well, let's just... bartleby throws his other hand forward and twists the cop's head around in one brisk motion. loki's eyes bug out. the crowd takes flight. bartleby releasing dead cop ladies and gentlemen you have been judged as guilty of violations against our almighty lord. and this very day i assure you you will all pay for your tresspasses... in blood. to loki wings. now. loki i'm not so sure... bartleby do it! int bar later azrael still hosts his captive audience, uzi trained on the mortals. the stygian triplets surround them, brandishing their sticks. bethany you're a muse too? serendipity former muse. he was kicked out. azrael tell them, serendipity. tell them how i was slighted by the almighty. serendipity you got what you deserved, you yellow shithead. azrael ever the apple polisher. i'd hoped that when you left paradise, you did it finally because you couldn't tolerate the injustice that was visited upon your own brother. bethany he's your brother?! serendipity not technically. we were created at the same time. azrael to compliment one another. two spirits of pure inspiration. bartleby so what happened? azrael yes. what. lucifer got restless and started his little war for the throne. heaven became divided into two factions the faithful and the renegades. the ethereal planes were chaotic with battle, angel against angel. and when it was all over, cod cast the rebels into perdition. serendipity but azrael refused to fight. he wouldn't ally himself to god or lucifer. he remained in the middle, waiting to see who came out victorious. jay what are you some kind of fucking chicken?! azrael i was an artist! i was inspiration! a muse has no place in battle! our job is to create not destroy! serendipity so after the fallen were banished to hell, god turned on those that wouldn't fight, and my brother here was sent down with the demons. something he considers a grave injustice. azrael don't tell me that you never questioned the judgement, serendipity that you don't think the almighty acted too rashly? serendipity you've been waiting for millions of years to ask me that, haven't you? it's been on your mind since the moment you fell. it's been gnawing at you this long. azrael well? serendipity no, azrael. it never bothered me, and i'll tell you why you stood behind your office, you prick. so you were an artist big deal. elvis was an artist, but that didn't stop him from joining the service in time of war. that's why he's the king... and you're a schmuck. bethany so all this is about revenge?! you're going to unmake existence because you have a grudge against god?! azrael after the first million years, revenge was the farthest thing from my mind. self preservation became the only necessity. rufus meaning? azrael escape. escape from hell became my all consuming reason. so i studied the religions and waited for my opportunity to present itself which flnallv did. in the form of the plenary indulgence and while i couldn't exercise it myself. i knew the perfect vessels through which i could free myself from torment. rufus bartleby and loki. azrael after that, it was a simple matter or waiting for a church to celebrate their centennial, and when that finally happened, applying some of the old inspiration tactics bv sending the pair an article laced with ideas. an incantation i picked up in the pit kept them cloaked and off heaven's radars, and aside from the triplets and the gologothan, no soul in hell had a clue as to what was going on. smiles won't proud lucifer weep when he realizes i triumphed over the power in a way he never dared or dreamed. shakes it off but no plan, no matter how intricate, could succeed if the almighty was in the realm of the quick. so i dispatched him in a fairly ingenious fashion. bethany how so? azrael oh no. i've seen way to many bond movies to know that you never reveal all the details of your plan no matter how close you may think you are to success. suffice it to say, the catholics have been even more helpful in insuring my success than by just supplying the clean slate archwav. gets up the only x factor was the involvement of the last scion. i'm amazed that someone up there would have the balls to make a move without the lord's say so. believe me i sweated when you stumbled upon my boys on that train. but alas, here you are powerless to stop the inevitable. bethany look, asshole i don't know if anyone explained the rules to you, but if you succeed, everything gets blinked out of existence even you. azrael beat human, have you ever been to hell? i think not. do you know that once hell was nothing more than the absence of cod? and if you'd ever been in his presence. then you'd realize that's punishment enough. but then your kind came along and made it so much worse. bethany humans aren't capable of one hundredth the evil a shitbag demon like yourself is. azrael evil is an abstract it's a human construct. but true to his irresponsible nature. man won t own up to being the engineer of evil, so he blames his dark deeds on my ilk. but his selfishness is limitless, and it's not enough for him to shadow his own existence. he turned hell into a suffering pitt fire, wailing, darkness the kind of place anyone would do anything to get out of. and why? because he lacks the ability to forgive himself. it is beyond your abilities to simply make recompense for and regret the sins you commit. no you choose rather to create a psychodrama and dwell in a foundless belief that god could never forgive your 'grievous offenses'. so you bring your guilt and inner decay with you to hell where the horrid imaginations of so many gluttons for punishment give birth to the sickness that has infected the abyss since the first one of your kind arrived there, begging to be 'punished'. and in doing so, they've transformed the cold and solitude to pain and misery. i've spent eons privy to the flames, inhaling the decay, hearing the wail of the damned. i know what effect such horrors have on the delicate psyche of an angelic beihg. beat would you like to glimpse pain eternal? look... azrael places his hand over bethany's eyes. for about ten seconds, we see some of the most fucked up and disturbing imagery that can be crammed into 240 frames of film. azrael pulls his hand away. bethany is fried, convulsing uncontrolably. azrael i'd rather not exist than go back to that. and if everyone has to go down with me, so be it. serendipity holding up bethany you're still thinking only about yourself, you fuckmg child. azrael now, now, now. things are getting too tense in here. what say we watch a little t.v. grabs remote control jay put on channel nine 'davey and goliath'! a stygian triplet smacks him with it's hockey stick. jay hey! azrael i was thinking more along the lines of current events. on the t.v. a sweaty and panicked reporter barks into the camera, obscuring the chaos behind him. screams are heard. reporter ...i repeat men with huge fucking wings have laid waste to st. michael's... bullets don't seem to affect them... police who were on the scene are dead... the remaining crowd has dropped to their knees, identifying this as the fabled apocalypse.. i'm not a man of faith, but i'm inclined to agree with them.. looking oc no! don't come any closer!! pulls gun please!! please... he puts the gun in his mouth and fires. the screen goes blank. azrael snapping off tv. you see that? and i told them to keep a low profile. i'd be pissed, but in a couple of minutes, it won't matter anymore. while he speaks, serendipity looks to silent bob. silent bob snaps to attention, and locks eyes with serendipity. he looks to the golf club, then back at her. he nods. azrael suddenly catches the exchange between the two. azrael now what was that all about? serendipity hunhh? oh. nothing. i had something in my eye. azrael getting up bullshit. what are you trying to do, serendipity get the guy killed? now who's the fucking child? what did you tell him to hit me with the golf club? are you serious? picks up golf club i'm a fucking demon, and you'd have him assault me with athletic equipment? hands club to silent bob well, here then take it. call it a gift. stands back and hits his own chest take a shot take your best shot. c'mon c'mon, bright boy. the stygian triplets snicker. silent bob stares at azrael, perplexed. azrael don't you know anything? silent bob looks to serendipity. she nods. he shrugs and swings the club with all his might into azrael's chest which caves in, blowing muck and shit everywhere. rufus, jay, and serendipity turn on their captors, grabbing the stygian triplets by the throats. serendipity bethany! bless the sink! bethany what?!? serendipity do it! bethany leaps over the bar, pushing over the dead bartender, and blesses the melting ice filled sink. serendipity urges rufus and jay to follow her, with the triplets in hand. they submerge them head first in the sink. cruddy steam and muck blows out of the water. the triplets convulse and fall still. azrael clutches at his sucking chest wound, dropping to his knees. he grabs silent bob's leg. silent bob kicks him onto his back and out cold. jay joining silent bob what the fuck have you been eating? silent bob shrugs. bethany what just happened? serendipity collecting hockey sticks he said it himself he's a demon. you hit a demon with an instrument of god the pure side's always going to do the most damage. jay silent bob's an instrument of god?! serendipity no but the driver is. bethany catching on and glick's the kind of asshole that would bless his own clubs for a better game. and the sink...? serendipity you've got that divine heritage going for you sanctifing is just one of the fringe benefits. bethany remind me to try the water to wine thing at my next party. to jay how far away is this church? jay three towns over about five miles. bethany we've gotta make tracks, people there isn't much time left. rufus, grab his gun. rufus ten steps ahead of you. bethany going through dead bartender's pockets we can take the bartender's car i don't think he'll be needing it anymore. bethany and serendipity rush out. jay we gonna make it? rufus was jesus down? rufus and jay exit. silent bob stares down at azrael's body. jay comes back and yanks him out the door. ext street day cardinal click runs to a pay phone. sweating and bloody, he looks a mess. he presses '0' and looks around wildly particularly skyward. glick to god look, if you didn't like the cereal thing, we could've gone in a different direction! to phone operator! send more police to saint michael's parish now!! people are getting killed by...! as he speaks, a large shadow falls over him from above. it grows larger, enveloping click. he drops the receiver, drops to his knees, and screams. ext saint michael's day bethany, jay, serendipity, silent bob, and rufus stare oc, horrified. jay holy shit. bodies, bodies everywhere partial, whole, bloody hanging, burning, upended. no one is left standing. it's a scene straight out of hell. bethany buries her face in rufus' chest. jay see? and people wonder why i don't go to church. bethany are we too late? serendipity to save these poor schmucks, yes. but we still exist. bethany where are they? rufus they could already be in the church. serendipity which means that if they come out, nobody touches them. jay are you shitting me? the brother here is going to shred them with his schwarzenneger special ain't you, homey? serendipity if they've passed through that arch, they come out clean. and if they die, they go straight up and we know what happens then. jay what if they just kill themselves? bethany they can't it's a mortal sin. you die with a mortal sin on your soul and you burn. they'd go to hell, and that's not what they're after. jay so then what the fuck are we supposed to do?! just wait for a solution to fall out of the sky?! on cue, a body plummets out of the sky and hits the ground before the group, quite like rufus had, way back at the start. this body, however, bursts apart like a body would if dropped from a large height. jay looks at rufus. jay friend of your's? rufus 'fraid not. oc voice it was a cardinal. they all turn to see loki, leaning against a body or two, drinking from a bottle of champagne. his wings lie beside him, filthy blood spattered and ashen. he looks exhausted. rufus trains the gun on him. loki kind of hard to tell with his face like that, but the rosaries are a dead giveaway. jay goes for the uzi it's one of them!! kill it!!! bethany struggling to stop him no...! she slaps the uzi out of jay's grip. it clatters to the side. bethany to jay don't you listen?! we can't touch them! jay i wasn't gonna touch him, i was gonna shoot him! loki looking skyward he's been at it for awhile now. in the distance above a mere shadow against the sky something winged soars and stops, releasing what looks like a very panicky human being. oc loki we ran out of parishoners, so he just started picking up anyone off the street. you're looking at eons of repression getting purged. if only we'd been able to jerk off. loki drags himself a few feet backwards. loki i'd step back if i were you. they jump back just as the body hits the ground and explodes. bethany charges at loki, grabs his lapels, and shakes him furiously. bethany why?!? what the fuck do you hope to prove?!? all these people why?!? jay to rufus i thought we weren't supposed to touch them? rufus i think our bethan's about hit her ceiling. loki slaps bethany away, non chalantly. loki this wasn't my idea. alright? i just wanted to go home. takes a big champagne swig we both wanted to go home. but he snapped. when he realized who you were and what you'd have to do, he just lost it. smiles you know what's funny about it? he never could stand to see me work. he said he always felt son' for you people that you didn't know any better. looks up now look at him. jay this guy's drunker than hell. serendipity which means he's human now his wings have been cut off. slapping loki to sober him up loki! loki! loki recognizing her the muse. haven't seen you in a long time. what's with the tits? serendipity loki have you walked through the arch yet? c'mon. tell me! have you gone in and come out through the archway yet?! voice no. bartleby lands beside them, draping his wings at his sides, brushing himself off. bartleby we were awaiting your arrival. serendipity bartleby listen to me! you can't go through with this! azrael was just using you! if you go back this way... bartleby slaps her down. bartleby i've become aware of the reprocussions, muse. i know what i'm doing. bethany leaps at him, all fists and fury. bethany you fuck! you sick, twisted fuck!! look what you've done!! look at all you've done...! bartleby subdues her. he strokes her hair. bartleby bethany you of all people should understand what i'm t'ing to accomplish here. you too have been abandonned. you know what it's like to be cast aside. but while you've only felt the devastating effects for a few years, i've dealt with it for millenia. and while you never see your ex husband or how blissful he is with his new wife... picks up her face and smiles at her and he is... drops her head ..seeing you people everywhere. everyday, trapped on this perfect little world he created for you... it's a constant reminder that though my kind came first, your kind was most revered. and your kind knows forgiveness, while my kind knows regret. a lesson must be taught. all are accountable... even god. steps back soon a cadre of police will arrive, just in time to kill us as we exit the church. and then this failed experiment called existence will cease to be. loki stumbles to his feet. loki i can't... let you do this, bartleby... he sways as if drunk i didn't know we... would end existence... bartleby to bethany my compatriot. genocide takes a lot out of him. he's weakened. and more importantly. he's now a human being. a condition that carries two liabilities a conscience... bartleby pulls a knife and guts loki. he stares at bartleby as he dies, confused and betrayed. serendipity nods to rufus and silent bob. bartleby ..and a short life span. in a whisper to loki sorry, old friend but you lost the faith. rufus and serendipity and silent bob jump bartleby and start throwing punches. silent bob bites his wing. jay grabs bethany and pulls her behind a bush. bethany peering out from behind he's lost it! we're fucked! we're absolutely fucked! jay pulling off clothes i hear you. bethany i can't believe this shit! we're on the brink of nonexistence and god's still nowhere to be found! what the fuck kind of deity gets kidnapped?! jay pulling open pants amen to that. bethany suddenly notices him what the hell are you doing?! jay i'd say we've got about five minutes left to live the whole world's going to end. you said you'd fuck me. bethany are you a complete lunatic?! everyone's out there battling that thing and you want to cower back here and jump my bones?! we have to go down fighting! jay no no time for that foreplay stuff, just sex. bethany you pig...! jay what?! it's all over nobody's gonna beat that thing! now we can either lay here all comatose like that john doe jersey bastard behind us, or we can make with the love. bethany freezes. bethany finally! what did you say?! jay 'make with the love'? i just said that to be sensitive. usually i call it boning. bethany no about john doe jersey? jay that guy the one that they won't take off life support john doe jersey. this is where he's at. bethany what? where? jay saint michael's hospital over there. points behind them there, across the street, sits a hospital. bethany thinks where's the nearest boardwalk? jay look, i ain't got time to win you a prize or something, we gotta get to it before... bethany where is it?!? jay scared asbury park. about five miles away. bethany you ever been there?! jay really scared once. i was banging this girl who worked at the carousel. she wanted to do it on the ride, but i got sick and started puking... bethany grabs his face do they have skee ball there?!? jay piss scared high pitched ...yes. bethany kisses jay hard on the lips, jumps up and looks over the bush. jay warming up now that's more like it. rufus and serendipity battle bartleby, his wings thrashing about. silent bob is getting back on his feet. bethany bob! silent bob looks to bethany. she waves him over and bends back down to jay who half closes his eyes, and puckers his lips. bethany pinches his lips together and raises jay to his feet, ust as silent bob arri'es. bethany to jay whatever you do stall bartleby from going into that church! to silent bob bob come with me! they exit