poor things written by tony mcnamara based on the novel poor things by alasdair gray final cut december 2023 1 ext london bridge day 1 a woman stands on a bridge on a foggy day. she dives off. 2 int baxter's house drawing room day 2 london 1882 bella baxter, a young woman around 30, sits calmly erect at the piano. she raises her hands and then smashes down on all the keys with her fists in a joyful way, screeching with laughter as she does. baxter 50s, in a suit and cravat, deformed face, probably a result from medical experiments, smiles watching. the kindness of his eyes is evident despite his scary face. 3 int baxter's house dining room day 3 baxter is hooked up to a machine and a tube flows into and under his waistcoat into his stomach. the glass machine pumps saliva like fluid. he and bella eat. mrs prim, the housekeeper, puts kippers down. bella grabs one, eats it, makes a face, spits it back across the table. baxter makes a sound. a giant bubble spills forth from his mouth. it floats a second, they watch as it lands and evaporates. bella laughs, claps. baxter smiles. he gets up, detaches the pipe from his innards and goes behind her. kisses her on the head. 4 int baxter's house hallway day 4 baxter puts on his coat and hat. bella runs along the hall to him. she has a half dog, half pig following her. baxter bye. bella ba. ba. he goes out. locking the door behind him. cut to poor things final cut 2. 5 int medical school lecture theatre london day 5 a pile of organs on a silver tray. a bunch of small animal cadavers lie nearby. an audience of medical students, staring. baxter, his smock drenched in blood, addresses them. a human cadaver, slit open and empty of organs, lies before him. baxter a pile of organs without the spark of self from a brain or the pump of blood from a heart. just a butcher's tray for a sunday lunch. now who would like to reconstruct the organs? and who can tell human from animal? if there is a difference. come come! you did puzzles as children, did you not? they all stare at him. a young guy in his late twenties, max mccandles watches. he is eager, righteous and badly dressed. some posh fops sit in front of him. fop 1 is it just me or is it devilishly hard to concentrate when the monster's talking? max he is an extraordinary surgeon, his father founded this place. his research is said to be groundbreaking. fop 2 have you mistaken yourself as included in this conversation max mccandles? your physical proximity to us does not make it so. max i guy fuck off old pal. get yourself a suit. max shrinks back. he watches as a hapless student at the front of the room tries to reassemble the organs in place. baxter you really think that is where the liver goes sir? poor things final cut 3. fop 1 may i ask what is the purpose of putting them back in sir? baxter looks up. considers him. baxter my amusement. mr max mccandles! everyone is startled. baxter cont'd walk with me at the end of the lesson. 6 ext medical shool london hallway day 6 max is staring at a portrait of a very serious looking man, handsome, in a suit. "barret baxter. our founder. 1842." baxter appears and passes right by him walking in a quick pace. max struggles to keep up. baxter your paper. max you liked it sir? baxter it showed signs of a conventional mind straining hard to almost touch mediocrity. max ...thank you. baxter i need someone. an assistant on a project. max i would baxter are you a religious man? max i believe in god. baxter me or the deity? max humorous i see, because you are known as... poor things final cut 4. baxter it is a joke of my own making, i do not need it explicated for me. 7 ext london street day 7 they enter the street. a little kid laughs at baxter. the kid's mother pulls at the kid, curling her face up at baxter. woman the very devil's work. max have you ever thought of growing a beard sir? baxter i look like a big dog in a cravat. max kids like dogs. this job. baxter yes. come. they arrive at baxter's house. 8 int baxter's house dining room day 8 bella stares at the table, laid for dinner with plates and glasses. she holds a plate examining it. happily drops it, it smashes on the floor. she starts dropping one after another. tosses one at the wall gleefully. max and baxter arrive, unseen at the door. baxter nods at max. he watches. she senses him. bella god! she runs to him and leaps. he catches her. she is round his waist. bella cont'd he... he... baxter hello. bella lo. baxter this is mr mccandles. poor things final cut 5. max hello bella. he puts his hand out to shake hers. she raises a hand gently, then swats him in the nose with a palm. laughs uncontrollably. his nose starts to bleed. bella bood, bood. baxter blood. blood. bella blood. baxter marvellous. max i'm fine. i'm fine. bella starts walking around and around in a circle. until she's dizzy. max stares at her. max cont'd what a very pretty retard. bella still spinning on the other side of the room. baxter whispers to max. baxter she suffered a brain injury, i repaired it. her mental age and her body are not quite synchronised. language is coming. she is progressing at an accelerated pace. max she is ...stunning. baxter i need to meticulously note her progression. you will do this for me. max it would be my honor. bella stops spinning. bella weeeee weee. baxter yes it is exciting bella. poor things final cut 6. bella nah. wee. a wet patch appears across her dress. max wee. she's doing a baxter mrs prim! cut to 9 int baxter's house bella's bedroom day 9 bella lies in a beautiful bed in a beautiful room. she wakes up. prim and max enter. max holds a notebook. he notes down the time. 10 int baxter's house dining room day 10 max takes notes as bella eats eggs and kippers. bella stops chewing. opens her mouth drops the chewed up food out of her mouth onto the table. goes on eating her eggs. max do you not like kippers? she points to him questioningly. max cont'd i am partial to them actu she scoops it up off the table, throws the chewed up fish at him. laughs. 11 int baxter's house surgery day 11 baxter, in a mask, a body on a slab. mrs prim is there working the anaesthetic. bella sits on a bench watching, fascinated by the scene, gets up, leans in close as the body is shaved so it can be cut. the knife on the skin. the scalpel slices an incision, she looks up at baxter beaming. bella bella cut too? baxter just dead ones for bella. bella just dead. poor things final cut 7. she walks over to a section of the room where a couple of cadavers lay out. she runs a hand over one, pushes at it's breast. holds a penis up. lets it fall. she takes a scalpel walks to the head. starts plunging it into the eyeballs of a cadaver. much to max's horror and her delight. bella cont'd squish. squish. cut to 12 int baxter's house hallway day 12 bella rides along a hallway on her bike, chased by a chicken barking like a dog. bella chog! chog! run chog! max looks at the animal, startled. 13 int baxter's house garden day 13 bella feeds a collection of animals. pigdogs. ducklambs. max stares at them wide eyed. he eyes the filing cabinets stuffed with medical files. 14 int baxter's house study day 14 max sits opposite baxter, who is looking through max's notes. max she gathers 15 words a day. her coordination seems unstable at best. her hair grows an inch every two days. baxter excellent. you may go. see you tomorrow. max where did she come from? baxter i believe your job is to collect data. when i add inane questions to it i'll let you know. he nods. poor things final cut 8. 15 int bella's bedroom night 15 baxter reads to bella from a book, she blithely lays flat on top of him on her bed. baxter and so when they returned from the wood she was reunited with her mummy and daddy. that night for dinner they ate cake until they were sick, they were so happy to be back together. the next day when she awoke.. beat bella you me daddy god? baxter i am... um... bella prim say you not be? who is? baxter looks down at his book for an answer. the next story. adventure in the andes', an illustration of a man and woman in explorer gear. baxter you are an orphan. your parents died. bella then you cut parents up god? baxter no. they were... my friends, they were brave explorers and were killed in a landslide in south america. they pushed the boundaries of what was known and paid a price. but there is no other way to live bella. they sent you to me to care for you. bella dead. baxter afraid so my darling. bella poor bella. but love god. she embraces him. he squirms a bit, awkward, pleasure. drinks in her smell a bit. poor things final cut 9. bella cont'd sleep here. baxter no. he rolls her off him. baxter cont'd good night dear bella. cut to 16 int baxter's house bella's bedroom day 16 max sits on the floor with bella as she looks at a map. point to it. bella this parents. max peru. he watches bella take a nut from a bowl full and eat it. he notes it. bella why you pen book every nut. max to note down your nutritional intake. she picks up a huge handful shoves them in her mouth, they spill out as well. bella mouthful how many? he smiles. she drops the nuts out of her mouth. bella cont'd tell of other places. she walks her fingers across the map. max you're in lisbon, portugal. the south of france, the alps. she jumps with her hand. lands. max cont'd istanbul. cross the waters. poor things final cut 10. she jumps her hand, a long time in the air. lands. max cont'd australia. bella bella go look at world. she walks out. he follows. 17 int baxter's house stairwell day 17 bella climbs the stairs to a door in the roof. max follows. 18 ext baxter's house the roof day 18 she clambers out onto the roof, calm despite the danger. max follows her, nervously shuffling his way across on hands and knees. sees the back of her head and the looping scar underneath her hair. max miss bella this is... she leans out and looks across the suburb, parks, houses, carriages. takes her breath away. bella picks up a piece of loose shingle. drops it over the side. max startled, looks down as it shatters on the road. bella laughs. seems to decide something. strolls back across the roof. 19 int baxter's house surgery day 19 the windows are open. smoke is billowing out. baxter takes notes as a cadaver's hair burns. mrs prim scrambles to extinguish it as bella runs in. bella god. sun. outside must go. baxter outside? no bella. we work. cut fingers? max notices baxter's reticence. bella then candles take me. candles!! max of course i can if baxter no. poor things final cut 11. bella out. yes! max has she ever been outside? bella no! baxter i have created a perfectly entertaining and safe world for bella now!!!! now!!!! she grabs a jar of tongues from the shelf throws it at baxter. he ducks, it smashes. baxter bella! she grabs a rack of blood filled test tubes picks them up. bella now! throws. cut to 20 ext london street day 20 a horse drawn carriage in the street. curtains drawn. 21 int carriage 21 baxter, max and bella in the carriage. bella glimpses quick slivers of people, action through a crack in the curtains. baxter you know so many things outside can kill you bella. bella kill dead? baxter snakes. carriages. sharp faced birds. earthquakes. inhalation of toxic grass seeds. she shrinks back from the window a bit. poor things final cut 12. 22 ext london park day 22 the carriage drives into a secluded area of the park. baxter checks it's emptiness. he opens the door. she opens her eyes. runs out, into a deserted area of a heavily wooded park. rolls in the leaves. cut to max and bella walk. baxter standing in the distance behind them, making sure that no other people approach them. cut to max next to a tree, picks up and examines a small frog. max bella. she looks into his cupped hands. bella kill it. max what? she claps his hands together. he opens his hands. dead frog. she laughs, runs away. cut to the three of them are sitting on a blanket on the ground. she looks at baxter's hands. bella why you funny thumbs god? he looks at his gnarled short flat thumbs. baxter once when i was very small my father pinned my thumbs into a small iron case to see whether he could retard the growth cycle of bones. well the pain was so great to stop myself from weeping i would stare deeply into my other fingers and, simply by observation, begin to parse out the epidemiological elements. when he came back, to his surprise i was smiling. poor things final cut 13. max good god. baxter he was a man of unconventional mind. baxter spies people coming toward them. baxter cont'd time to go. a storm approaches. they head for the carriage. max why do you scare her so? baxter she is an experiment and i must control the conditions or our results will not be pure. 23 int carriage day 23 they ride. baxter reads. max takes bella's pulse. writes a note. bella can hear noise. bella peeks through the blinds. sees a man selling ice cream at the exit to the park. people eating and laughing. bella's eyes widen, delighted. she rips the blind back. bella stop! god! we go! baxter no bella. bella bella wants walk in ice cream. baxter no. he pushes the blind closed. she stares at him. bella bella wants! baxter my face. people scared of god. laugh at god. bella god lovely. like dog face. baxter winces a bit. poor things final cut 14. bella cont'd woof! woof! baxter quite. bella tries to open the door. bella stop! me walking. baxter no. bella no now? no never? he stares at her. baxter just... no. the carriage moves on. bella screams in baxter's face. kicks at the window. baxter pulls her down from the window. he sees through the gap in the blinds people looking at them. she bites his hand. he releases her. she opens the door. max, not knowing what else to do, pulls her back inside, ripping her blouse as he does. holds her as she spits at him. max sorry i baxter pulls out a bottle of chloroform and a cloth. they struggle. he chloroforms her. max cont'd mother of god. she goes unconscious. he stares at her, deep sadness. strokes her cheek. baxter i'm sorry my darling. 24 int baxter's house bella's bedroom day 24 max carries bella into her room. her face against his cheek breathing. he stares at the flap of shirt revealing her skin. he leans over, hand hovers a second, he folds the cloth to cover her. his fingers touching her skin slightly. her eyes flicker open. he gets flustered. prim enters, turns down the bed. bella is on the edge of consciousness, feeling hands on her, as she is stripped and put in a nightshirt. they pull her blankets over her. and exit. poor things final cut 15. 25 int baxter's house study day 25 max rifles through the filing cabinets, finds bella's file. stares at diagrams. including notes about a baby. baxter appears in the door. max what did you do to her? and why are you hiding her? tell me what all this means or i go to the police. baxter considers him. baxter i shall for it is a happy tale. cut to 26 ext london bridge day 26 bella stands on a bridge on a foggy day. she dives off. 27 ext london river day 27 baxter vo it is rare to get a body albeit dead but so close to life. on the banks of the river bella's washed up, dead body, lies. face down. a burly looking guy comes across her. he turns her over. her lips are blue. picks her up and throws her roughly over his shoulder. 28 int baxter's house study 28 baxter rigor had not set in, the body had hardly cooled. no pulse, but some electric current so i could have kept her alive. max but you didn't? 29 int baxter's house surgery day 29 the burly guy takes a few coins from baxter and leaves. baxter goes to a chair, sits. he stares at bella's pregnant body. poor things final cut 16. baxter vo i knew nothing about the life she had abandoned, except that she hated it so much that she had chosen not to be, and forever. what would she feel on being dragged from her carefully chosen blank eternity and forced to be in one of our understaffed, poorly equipped madhouses, reformatories or jails? baxter gets up, dexterously picks up a scalpel, approaches bella and in one swift motions slits open her dress from top to bottom. the dress falls open, not an ounce of blood spilt. baxter vo cont'd for in this christian nation suicide is treated as lunacy or crime. who was i to decide her fate? but there was also on my part a recognition. baxter opens her corset. 30 int baxter's house study 30 baxter all my research had come to this moment, fate had brought me a dead body and a live infant, it was obvious. max it was? an incredulous max. he stares at baxter, not getting it. baxter take the infant's brain out and put it in the full grown woman, reanimate her and watch. max jesus. cut to nighttime surgery. prim is there assisting. a glass vial is rotating fiercely, then fills with blood suddenly. a bloody surgical saw is put down next to it. the top of bella's skull is placed down next to that. a frenetic lightning like source bounces in a glass sealed copper bowl with a tube running out of it. surgical thread unspooling off a spindle. poor things final cut 17. bella's bloody skull top is picked back up by his bloodied gloved hand. we cut back to the office. on max's face. max cont'd she knows? he shakes his head. max cont'd who was she? baxter no idea. but would you rather the world did not have bella? 31 int baxter's house bella's bedroom day 31 bella sleeps fitfully, starts touching her body. she reaches between her legs. starts to feel pleasure, as she starts to masturbate. 32 int baxter's house dining room day 32 bella eats breakfast. she takes an apple, puts it between her legs, rolls it back and forth quickly. feels more pleasure. cums quickly. sits, smiling. mrs prim enters with some eggs, puts them on the table. serves her some eggs, sour faced. bella mrs prim. bella discover happy when she want. prim uh huh. bella you are a sour face, but i fix you. prim i bella close eyes. bella shoves her hand between prim's legs. prim oh! poor things final cut 18. bella just wait, it takes a moment. prim breaks away. pushes bella. max walks in. prim she grabbed me hairy business! she's sick! max bella? bella oh i have discover something and must share, share, share. watch. she starts masturbating. he is stunned. bella cont'd what if put cucumber in me? she takes a cucumber from the table. he turns his back on her. max bella! cease working yourself immediately! she stares at him. stops. bella what is max bella in polite society that is not done. bella oh. max i... just do not. cut to 33 omitted 33 34 omitted 34 35 int baxter's house dining room evening 35 the three of them sit at the table. a machine, bubbling away in the corner of the room, is making a foul smelling liquid. poor things final cut 19. max what is that? baxter my father took out my oxyntic and pyloric glands, so i must make my own gastric juices. max why in god's name would he do that? baxter to discover what no one knew. turns out we need them. ideally. bella pushes her plate aside. baxter cont'd you have not eaten bella. she pushes it further to the edge of the table. eyes him. baxter cont'd do not. she slaps the side of it so it flips in the air and crashes. it thrills her, she smiles triumphantly. bella good night. gets up and exits. a burbling sound rips from baxter's stomach. he opens his mouth a large bubble appears and is released. they watch it for a moment and it floats and lands on the table and bursts. baxter do you know i am actually something of a romantic max? max what? i . baxter i believe i see love between you and bella. max i... what? i... she is... baxter perhaps you should marry her? max what? poor things final cut 20. baxter i think she loves you. 36 int baxter's house drawing room day 36 bella tossing strawberries high in the air. max runs frantically from one side of the room to the other to catch each in his mouth. baxter watches them as max falls and bella laughs. baxter vo i have seen people look at each other with love, as an observer never a subject of course. i see it. 37 int baxter's house dining room 37 max you do? i do have feelings. baxter so you would? 38 int baxter's house drawing room 38 bella take bella out. max bella... i... she licks his ear suddenly. max cont'd oh. she laughs. does it a again, faster, it affects him. bella feel funny? he nods. she leans her head to him. bella cont'd do bella. he reluctantly licks her ear. slowly. she laughs. poor things final cut 21. 39 int baxter's house dining room 39 max i wondered if perhaps you were raising her to be your mistress, a dark thought unworthy of me i know. so you are not laying with her. baxter spermatic ejaculation can only induce homeostasis in me if accompanied by prolonged stimulation of higher nerve centres whose pressure upon the ductless glands changes the chemistry of my blood not for a few spasmodic minutes but for many days. max what? baxter i am a eunuch and can't fuck her. to get a sexual response from my body would take the same amount of electricity as runs north london. besides my paternal feelings seem to outweigh my sexual thoughts. 40 ext baxter's house garden day 40 an enclosed courtyard, bella is staring up at the sky. a pigdog and a duckgoats mill about. max vo i apologise for my own dark thoughts. baxter vo not dark at all. men's, indeed all sexuality, is basically amoral. max vo not all sir! baxter vo do you wish to marry her or not? max approaches bella in the garden. max i wish to marry you. be my wife. she smiles, he goes to kiss her, hits her teeth. poor things final cut 22. bella ow! let us touch each other's genital pieces. max no. i do not wish to take advantage of you. you are... special. when we are wed. she nods, slightly annoyed. 41 int baxter's house dining room 41 baxter one condition. max she must desire it also, i understand. baxter two conditions then. that one you said and you must live here with me always. i will have a legal agreement drawn up. cut to 42 omitted 42 43 omitted 43 44 int baxter's house bella's bedroom day 44 bella looks at the windows. notices the new locks on them. she punches the window. growls. hits the window. 45 int baxter's study day 45 duncan is at the office. baxter peruses the papers. duncan sips at a glass of port. duncan curious contract. baxter hmmm. there are several spelling errors. duncan oh... immaterial to the legal bindingness of it i assure you. more poor things final cut 23. duncan cont'd must be quite a woman to warrant such binding. baxter hmmmm. duncan if you'll excuse me i need to use the facilities. baxter looks up at him. baxter are you five years old that you cannot hold your water? duncan weak bladder, as my father before me and his before him. baxter you may have prostate cancer. look into it. duncan will do. 46 int baxter's house hallway day 46 duncan takes the stairs, two at a time, opening doors, snooping, enjoying himself. one of the doors opens onto bella's bedroom. 47 int baxter's house bella's bedroom day 47 bella is in a cupboard in her room. she blows soap bubbles. she hears the door to her room open. peers through a crack. duncan spins the globe, looks at the maps on the floor. picks up one of her hats. he notices bubbles coming out of the cupboard. he goes over, positions himself and starts popping the bubbles. the door opens. duncan miss bella baxter, as per your contract no doubt? bella good afternoon visiting man. want my hat? poor things final cut 24. duncan would it suit me? he goes and puts it on. she follows him. bella yes! it is foolish good! she claps. duncan i had to meet this woman who would inspire such a contract of marriage that imprisons her. bella what you mean? duncan you will live here, travel with mr max mccandles and baxter abroad, but not go forth in the city. she takes this in. bella i see. they love me tight. his hand presses between her legs softly, as he leans to her ear. duncan i understand why. i need to pinch you, to see if you are real. bella you will not pi he pinches her hand slowly, softly, as he presses closer. she closes her eyes. he is close to her. bella cont'd oh. who is you? duncan mr duncan wedderburn. he walks out, tossing her hat to her as he goes. cut to 48 int baxter's house bella's bedroom night 48 bella lies on her bed. masturbating. she hears a knock on her balcony door. wedderburn waves. poor things final cut 25. she goes and opens it. bella how you get up here? duncan i climbed. he holds out a limp wrist. she looks at it. it snaps taut suddenly, startling her. she laughs. 49 ext baxter's house rooftop night 49 bella you were watch me long? duncan not long. bella you did not see me working myself to get happiness did you? it is not polites i know. duncan i do not care for polite society. it's fucking boring and destroys one's soul. bella god not believe in soul. duncan i think god's the actual author of the soul idea. bella godwin baxter. duncan the burnt dog. what is that story? you are a prisoner and i aim to free you. she claps her hands. duncan cont'd there is something in you, some hungry being, hungry for experience, freedom, touch. to see the unknown and then... he touches her face. poor things final cut 26. duncan cont'd know it. so why am i here you ask? i am going to lisbon on friday. i would like you to come. bella lisbon, of portugal. duncan that is the lisbon i speak of. bella god never allow it. duncan that's why i'm not asking him. i'm asking you. she considers him. beat. bella bella not safe with you i think. duncan you are absolutely not. 50 int baxter's house surgery day 50 baxter has a line of brains on a tray. he slices one quickly like sushi chef and has it sectioned in no time. he examines it. bella enters. bella may i have a moment of value time dear god? baxter of course bella. bella i wanted to tell you big news. bella is dizzy with excite. baxter what is it? bella tonight at midnight i secretly run away with one duncan wedderburn. baxter what!? bella you will wish to stop me. poor things final cut 27. baxter i shall stop you! bella you hold bella too tight. i must set forth into waters. baxter we can travel. you, me, and max. whom, i will remind you, you are betrothed to. bella i will marry max as he seems right for that, but first i will adventure on duncan wedderburn, whom i think cares little of damage to me, but will be interesting as well. baxter i can't let you go. bella kiss me and set me forth. if you do not, bella's insides turn rotten with hate. baxter hate? bella hate. he stares at her. 51 int baxter's house bella's bedroom day 51 miss prim and bella pack her suitcases. max comes in at a raging clip. max unpack those bags prim. prim walks out past him. rolls her eyes. max cont'd godwin has explained your plan. i do not blame you bella, that man is a cad and a rake. he has insidious ways to get under a naive woman's skin. poor things final cut 28. bella mostly his eyes on mine as his hand softly between bella's legs and whisper words i can't hear that make bella's body heat. beat. max stares at her. max jesus! we are engaged bella. i love you. bella and when i am back we marriage and be happy as two doves on a branch. you think i need travel hat? max this will not do. it cannot. he starts taking off his coat. max cont'd i will see to this man myself, beat him until his handsome face is a porridge of blood and bones. bella max you are flushed and i am too at sight of different max. max i apologise but i will not let someone i know who has nothing but ill intent in his mind and nothing for you in his heart, trick you. i will smash his fucking head in. she crushes her lips on his. pulls away and brings a cloth with chloroform to his mouth. an unconscious max drops to the floor. bella good bye later dove. i will see you after grand adventure. baxter comes in clutching a stack of folded notes. baxter grabs a dress from her case, rips open the lining, and swiftly sews the money into the dress with the skill of a surgeon. she watches him. he stares at her as he does it. he comes to her, embraces her, then stalks from the room. cut to poor things final cut 29. 52 int baxter's house bella's bedroom day 52 max wakes up. he has a half chicken half pig pecking at his chest. he gets up, runs downstairs. 53 int baxter's house drawing room day 53 the drawing room is empty. almost. baxter i am having port for breakfast. it is strangely delicious. he turns and sees baxter lying on the floor, an almost empty flagon beside him. max she's gone. why did you not stop her? baxter because i... she is a being of free will. max she is now out there. alone. baxter she will be fine. max i am a fool. i should've stopped her. baxter sssh, we are men of science, this emotionality is unseemly. max lies down next to him. takes a glass. baxter pours for him. they lie there. max i just hope she's alright. 54 omitted 54 55 int lisbon hotel room day 55 on bella's flushed face. bella oh oh oh. poor things final cut 30. a darkened hotel room. bella is on top of duncan. bella has a noisy orgasm. bella cont'd oooooooh! 56 int lisbon oyster restaurant day 56 a long line of paper covered tables with trays of oysters. businessmen hunch over, shucking down oysters. duncan you are the most beautiful woman i have ever seen. i will not lie to you, i have been with many. bella miss prim said you were wolf with the scent of hundred women on you. duncan she undersells it. oysters arrive. duncan cont'd okay, oysters. have you had them before? bella have not. he pulls a knife. duncan shuck. chuck and bubble. rollicking. he shucks two oysters expertly, slides one down his mouth, closes his eyes, glugs champagne. she does the same. bella rollicking. cut to 57 ext lisbon street cafe day 57 silver dishes of portuguese tarts. they stand at the bar, espresso at the ready. tart in hand. poor things final cut 31. duncan nuns and monks would starch their clothes with egg whites and with the yolks make these tarts. now how to eat it. bella i will guess through mouth. duncan it must not be eaten dainty flake by dainty flake but inhaled with gusto, like life itself. he mashes one into his mouth. she follows suit. she chews, eyes wide. bella it incredible. what is... who made this?... we need more. duncan no more. one is enough, any more it is too much. it's siesta time. bella what is siesta? 58 int lisbon hotel room day 58 bella leans against the wall as they fuck from behind. cut to bella flushed and ecstatic astride duncan. cut tolegs over his shoulders they fuck loudly. a bird flies into the room and flies around, they ignore it. it flies out. cut to they lie next to each other. bella why do people not just do this all the time? duncan well at the risk of being immodest you have just been thrice fucked by the very best. it's probable no other man will ever bring you to the raptures i will. i feel bad for you. poor things final cut 32. bella well it will just be you i do furious jumping with. duncan furious jumping! i love that. bella i am rested, let us go again. duncan again? unfortunately, even i have my limits. men cannot keep coming back for more. bella it is a physiological problem. a weakness in men. duncan well... perhaps so. bella opens the shutters. the busy lisbon streets below her. she smiles. duncan cont'd you will be advised, if it's not too late, not to fall in love with me. i have very little to offer in the way of constancy, just adventure. bella i see. duncan let us sleep. cut to duncan snores in bed. bella, dressed, sits by the door. exits. 59 ext lisbon street day 59 she stands at the door of the hotel. anxious. doorman taxi madam? she shakes her head no. she peers out onto the street. sees the bakery they were at in the distance. slowly walks towards it. excited by being alone. poor things final cut 33. 60 ext lisbon street cafe day 60 a plate of five portuguese tarts in front of her. starts gorging on them, whole. fancy society people look at her. she smiles, her face full of custard. 61 ext lisbon street day 61 she hears music. she follows it. looks up to a balcony. a woman plays a fado on her guitar and sings. bella is mesmerised. a tear runs out her eye. a woman yells. a couple come out, arguing spiritedly. the woman slaps the guy, turns and sees bella watching. screams at bella in portuguese. startled, bella runs into a warren of streets. realizes she is completely lost. we see her small in a wide view of the city which now looks like a maze. two fisherman are having a fist fight. she stops and watches. she starts to feel ill, throws up her tarts. they stop and stare at her. she backs away, walks on. then hears it, a tram. she follows the sound as it grows louder. she turns into the main square and sees their hotel. 62 int lisbon hotel room evening 62 duncan waits in the room, dressed and smoking, a little agitated. bella enters. bella good evening duncan wedderburn. duncan bella where have you been? you disappeared. bella i did not. no one can just disappear. can they? duncan what? bella can they disappear? duncan no. of course... what the fuck are you...where were you? poor things final cut 34. bella i wanted a tart, but then an adventure befell me. i did not know how to return and then i heard it. the tram, i will walk to the noise. and i found it! amazement to bella. explorer bloods in me. duncan bella, it is dangerous to go out without me. bella i have adventured it and found nothing but sugar and violence. it is most charming. i am fine. she lies down on the bed. bella cont'd i must lie down and you must lie down on top of me and do some more furious jumping. he nods. 63 int lisbon hotel restaurant night 63 duncan and bella dine in a restaurant busy with families and couples. the sit together with a fancy couple, kitty and gerald. duncan kitty did you see the new show in london by wilde, marvellously witty. kitty oh i loved it. a handbag! they laugh. bella eating a mouthful of food, makes a coughing noise as she lets it fall from her mouth back out onto her plate. duncan bella? bella what? why would i keep it in my mouth if it is revolting? kitty i have said that before to gerald if you catch my drift. duncan you are wicked. poor things final cut 35. bella oh! because you mean his penis! they stare at her. a baby nearby is crying. bella cont'd duncans can be salty. duncan bella! good god. bella i'm sorry, but i must go punch that baby. she gets up and heads toward the baby, balling her fist. duncan is up and drags her away. 64 int lisbon restaurant hallway night 64 he stops and pushes her against the wall. duncan you're behavior is unconscionable. will you behave? bella the food was cacking my throat, the baby annoying, and the woman boring with words. he pushes her hard into the wall, grabs her arm twists her wrist. she winces. surprised. duncan you will rejoin the table and will confine yourself to the following three phrases. how marvellous'. delighted'. and how do they get the pastry so crisp?' yes? bella you are hurting bella. duncan i'm sorry. reason does not penetrate! he lets her go. duncan cont'd let us go. he turns, she punches him in the side of the head. poor things final cut 36. duncan cont'd ow! they look at each other, she pushes him against the wall. kisses him. she breaks. heads back into the restaurant. he follows. 65 int lisbon restaurant night 65 they sit with his friends. kitty are you enjoying lisbon bella? bella delighted. duncan and how is your dear father kitty? kitty very unwell, i fear he will not see the year out. bella how wonderful. how do they get this pastry so crisp? 66 int baxter's house dining room day 66 a listless max and baxter at the table. breakfast laid before them. baxter suddenly releases a bubble into the air. they watch it float and die. prim comes in with mail. baxter eyes it, bored. he sees something. baxter good god. max what is it? baxter from her. they look at the naive but stunning drawings on the card. sexual drawings, espresso cups. a tram coming out of her mouth. scrawled babyish writing over it. they try and decipher. max me good. lisbon. sugar tart lick me all day. i hope that is all one sentence anyway. poor things final cut 37. baxter good god. are they... max fucking. yes. i believe so. also fellating a tram. 67 omitted 67 68 omitted 68 69 int lisbon bar day 69 she goes in. points to the shots everyone is having. they set up a glass for her. she tosses a shot back. then another. cut to 70 int lisbon bar night 70 bella wakes up, slouched in a corner. empty glasses in front of her. 71 int lisbon hotel lobby night 71 a distressed duncan walks through the lobby, half dressed. he sits, head in his hands. bella plops beside him. bella does your head ache also duncan wedderburn? i am also starving for dinner. he looks at her. duncan where the fuck were you? an old woman with a large feathered hat approaches. duchess victoria blessington i do declare. i have not seen you for years. bella and you still have not as i am bella baxter, strange feathered lady. the woman bridles a bit. poor things final cut 38. duchess i apologize. i could've sworn you were she. she heads off. duncan right. shall we? 72 int lisbon restaurant night 72 duncan sits with bella. he is sullen. the waiter stands as bella orders.. bella yes the steak, then the fish, then caramel things in pots that old spotted people over there have. she points to an old couple dining nearby. looks at duncan. duncan maybe i don't want caramel in pots! bella of course, that was all for bella. order at your whim. you are cross at bella's outings and adventures, and yet, we must discover by whim, as spoken by duncan wedderburn to bella baxter day one of lisbon love affair. duncan touch. bella understand me have never lived outside god's house. duncan what? bella so bella so much to discover, and your sad face makes me discover angry feelings for you. duncan right. i have become the thing i hated, the grasping succubus of a lover. i have pried many of them off me and now i am it. fuck! she gets up, walks onto the dance floor, does a dance of her own making, alone. poor things final cut 39. people are weirded out. he watches her. crazy with love. goes and joins her. takes her in his arms tries to dance normally with her but she has no idea how and they stumble there way across the floor. and to their seats. duncan cont'd you, like me, are a creature of freedom and the moment! she winks. he looks at her. duncan cont'd what are you doing that for? bella a man over there repeated blinks at me. i blink back, for polites i think. duncan turns and looks at the guy, who looks away. duncan crosses the room and attacks the guy. he smashes the guy in the eye with a glass. they wrestle. bella watches for a moment. a man and woman come up to her. dancing woman we are going to dance in town, please join us. bella oh. i have never danced in town. she leaves duncan fighting. bella walks across the room with the woman and man. he sees them, extricates himself. attacks them. the guy and duncan exchange punches. bella attacks the guy as well. duncan looks at her. duncan you are quite mad. bella stop talking as your sounds make bella angry. duncan i will not stop talking if i have something to... bella picks up someones drink off a table and throws it in his face, glass and drink. duncan cont'd ...ouch. ow. poor things final cut 40. 73 int lisbon hotel room night 73 they stare at each other. bella jumps, her legs around him. she pushes him down. he slides down, smiles at her lasciviously. lifts her dress up, then stops. duncan what's this? she has the word soft' written on one inner thigh, softer' on the other one. bella a man was teaching me chess when he said he thought i probably would have the softest skin he had ever touched. i said if i did it would be the inner thighs to test, for that is where the epidermis is at its most fine. he looks at her. bella cont'd so we tested, and it was the softest ever! and i noted perhaps they were not equal in softitude. indeed they were not. so i made sure to note it, remembering which was which. he stares at her. he gets up. walks out of the room. bella cont'd what of the tongue play you were about to perform? is that not happening? 74 int lisbon hotel bar night 74 wedderburn walks to the bar, motions for liquor. smacks his head hard into the counter of the bar. makes a guttural yell. blood runs from his head as he drinks the shot. bella joins him. bella you are troubled? duncan did he... lie with you? bella no, we were against a wall. poor things final cut 41. duncan did you... furious jump him?! bella no, he just fastlicked at my clitoris. i had the heat that needed release. so at my requesting it was. he hits his head on the bar again. bella cont'd you too may tongue play me, so am not understanding this complicated feeling you have... are you now crying? he is. she goes and embraces him from behind. bella cont'd what a confusing person you are duncan wedderburn. cut to 75 int london medical school day 75 a cadaver lies on the table. students wait, including mccandles. baxter walks in. to max he seems slightly unsteady on his feet. takes a scalpel. baxter the liver. a small incision is all that is needed. baxter slices, and the knife slides down through the leg as he passes out and flops to the floor. 76 int london medical school day 76 baxter i was chloroforming goats all morning, i may have ingested too much. max i am going to venture to suggest you are upset by bella's absence. the litres of port, the sobbing i hear at night. a group of students titter to one another as they walk by. baxter roars and takes a swing at them as they pass. poor things final cut 42. baxter good god man, you prattle like an imbecile. she is gone! i am a man of science. i just need to engage in and continue the project. that is all. i must go onto the next thing. our feelings must be set aside. do you think my father could have branded me with hot irons on the genitals the way he did, if he could not put science and progress first? max branded you?! baxter let us find a body. he walks away. max a... what? cut to 77 int lisbon hotel room day 77 bella wakes up, sees duncan smoking in a chair, looking at her. bella hello good morning. duncan good morning darling. i have not been as supportive of your adventurous spirit. so i have a surprise for you. he points to a large chest. duncan cont'd get in. she looks at him. 78 omitted 78 79 ext lisbon path day 79 bella knocks on the trunk. bella i need to wee. poor things final cut 43. 80 int cabin day 80 bella asleep. the trunk stops. the trunk opens. she comes to and looks up at a beaming duncan wedderburn. she steps out of the trunk and looks around. a new hotel suite. bella nonplussed we changed hotels? duncan look out the window bella. she looks. the sea. lisbon in the distance. bella we are on boat. duncan indeed. they look at each other. bella you aim to trap bella at sea. duncan i aim to give you a new adventure. i suppose it is true you will be easier to find. he flops back on the bed, smiles at her. duncan cont'd come disrobe me, ride me and we will then drink cocktails on the foredeck. she stares at him a beat. goes into the bathroom slams the door. 81 int ship bathroom day 81 bella in the tiny bathroom. she looks out the porthole. bella blue. blue. blue. he bangs on the door. she ignores him. poor things final cut 44. 82 int cabin night 82 bella opens the door into the room. duncan is asleep on the bed. bella comes out, eyes him. goes to the door. 83 ext ship night 83 bella walks through empty ballrooms, empty bars, empty decks. seemingly almost alone on the ship. she steps through some doors. out onto the deck. sees a steward. he holds a seabird by the legs, it flaps it's wings. he smashes it against the railing. steward shit on me, you fucker! she stands there, he turns to her, the bleeding dead bird in his hand. steward cont'd madam. bella when do we stop? steward athens. three days. she nods. she stares at the bird. he flings it over the railing. smiles at her. cut to 84 int dining room day 84 a flamb crepe suzette, a women's hair on fire. duncan stares at bella who ignores it, she is drawing a postcard to baxter. her floating at sea, a bird sitting on her chest pushing her under. duncan there is a woman on fire. look. she continues drawing. duncan cont'd i know you are mad, forgive me my kidnapping you, but it was for love. a romantic jape. don't be such a cunt about it. she looks at him. bella i want a drink. poor things final cut 45. duncan of course darling. the ship is fun, a world to explore. i love you. do you love me? bella describe the elements i should be looking for within myself to be sure. duncan you just feel it or not! bella so it is no evidence base as god would say. and so how judge it empirically? duncan what the fuck are you talking about? who are you? you don't know what bananas are, you've never heard of chess, and yet you know what empirically means! bella bella needs a drink. said twice now. duncan i have never felt anything like this. is this true for you? bella ...i suppose empirically it is. oh i am out of ink. duncan then you shall have ink my love. he gets up and heads across the room. she looks around the room. sees a striking woman and a slightly eccentric style for the era who watches the room, martha von kurtzroc. she sits with harry astley, thirties, american, well dressed reading a newspaper. bella is intrigued gets up and walks to her. bella hello interesting older lady, i must touch your hair. martha i noticed your hair as well. like silk on a translucent glowing egg. poor things final cut 46. bella that is fancy words that excite me somehow. martha you are with handsome over there, all white teeth and hard cock. bella duncan wedderburn. his teeth are also hard, his penis is also white. harry laughs wryly. stares at her, suddenly interested. martha a good lay i hope. bella he is my only but i find him able to elicit exceptional sensations through my whole body and leave me yelping happily. i also wish to dash his body, form, cadaver into the sea. is this man jumping on your body? martha he is not. i have not been bedded in twenty years. bella what? that is terrible. martha it does not concern me greatly. as the years pass what is between my ears is my main concern, that between my legs less so. harry a desperate rationalization martha. bella looks at him. martha this is mr. harry astley. try not to take what he says to heart. he is a cynic. astley madam. bella i am bella baxter. and don't know this cynic is? duncan approaches carrying an ink well. poor things final cut 47. duncan bella? ink. bella duncan wedderburn, i have made friends, colleagues, comrades. astley harry astley. bella this is martha. she is my new friend who has not been fucked in twenty years! is that not astonishment?! to martha i hope you use your hand between your legs to keep yourself happy? duncan jesus god bella! you cannot speak like this. bella polites of society. i forgot. harry polite society will destroy you. bella it will? duncan there is some truth to that. martha we are all agreed on that. and in answer to your enquiry on my hand. occasionally. yes. bella that is much reassuring news. we shall all dine together. duncan we actually bella are all on a ship and cannot escape, but there is a world to discover, enjoy, traverse, circumnavigate. harry or can she not have friends mr wedderburn? he eyes harry, smiles. poor things final cut 48. duncan delighted. 85 int ship hallway day 85 bella and duncan walk down the hall, him simmering. he stops suddenly, pushes her against the wall. duncan marry me. bella what? duncan i meant to throw you aside. a few months and then send you packing, but i cannot. say you will marry me. no one has ever captured my heart. you have. bella it is tricky as i am engaged to mr max mccandles. duncan what?! bella my hand has taken by another. it is a saying i heard and did not understand, you do not take just the hand but all, do you not? duncan you ran away with me! from him! bella a recounting of events the point of which is elusive to me. duncan you chose me! over him! bella for now. for fun. duncan i will fucking throw you overboard! bella so you wish to marry me, or kill me? is that the proposal? duncan no. no. i... i am going to the casino. poor things final cut 49. he stalks off. 86 ext london park day 86 felicity, a young woman, childlike in manner, is hit in the head by a ball thrown by max. baxter that's fine. max she is coming along. baxter let's try again. gross motor skills develop slowly but you will progress fast. max felicity. max throws the ball. felicity does not reach to catch it and it hits her in the head. baxter not that fast. felicity starts sobbing uncontrollably. 87 ext ship deck day 87 bella sits in the sun reading with martha and astley. a small stack of books beside her. bella i am reading emerson. he speaks of self improvement of men. i don't know why he does not give advice to women, perhaps he does not know any. martha you should also try goethe. harry philosophy is a waste of time bella. bella really? say more. martha no, no, harry you wretch, it is integral. people and society can be improved. poor things final cut 50. bella it is the goal of all to improve, advance, progress and grow. i know this in me and am sure i am indicative of all. harry trust me you are definitely unique bella in all ways. but this improvement through philosophy is people trying to run away from the fact we are cruel beasts. born that way, die that way. bella it is a dark view of things harry. duncan approaches. duncan bella, let us take the air, in our cabin'? he winks at her. bella these two are fighting and ideas are banging around bella's head and heart like lights in a storm. duncan you are always reading now bella. you are losing some of your adorable way of speaking. bella i am a changingable feast, as are all of we. apparently according to emerson, disagreed with by harry. duncan come. come. just come. bella you are in my sun. duncan what? she continues reading. he grabs the book out of her hands, tosses it over the side. martha hands her one. she starts reading that. duncan grabs it and throws it over the side. he stalks off. poor things final cut 51. 88 int ship cards table room night 88 duncan playing cards, he is not winning, slightly distracted. she comes to him, puts her hand on his shoulder. bella come. he looks at her. duncan i am busy losing. heavily. and busy drinking. heavily. he turns back to his cards, bella turns and walks out. 89 int cabin night 89 bella is lying on the bed reading. duncan starts kissing her feet. she pushes him away. bella i must meet martha. duncan martha! she is the problem! i will throw that fucking perfumed bag of flesh overboard. bella looks at him. bella i dare you. he stares at her. he heads out suddenly. 90 ext ship deck day 90 martha sits in a deckchair reading. duncan arrives at speed, harry is at the railing, sees him coming. advances toward him. harry where you going? duncan she's going over the side. martha marvellous. i never imagined i'd be murdered. how dramatic. harry she seems happy to die. sorry for getting in your way. poor things final cut 52. he pushes past harry straight at martha. duncan struggles to drag martha in her deck chair to the railings. two stewards attempt to restrain him. martha hits duncan in the throat with her cane. bella stands nearby roaring with laughter. the two stewards drag duncan away. duncan croaks i'll be in the bar. 91 int cabin night 91 duncan sleeps, battered and bruised. bella beside him. she can't sleep. 92 intext harry's cabin night 92 bella walks the cabin hallway. knocks on astley's door. he answers blearily. bella you have made me think, cogitate and perambulate through ideas that are wrong, erroneous and nonsensically annoying that lead me not to sleep. harry so... bella you say all are cruel and i disagree, disavow and say no not, but when with duncan the cruel just bubbles up in me. harry that shows good judgement. he is a pretty moron. bella no. i wish not to be cruel, i must improve this aspect of myself. harry you don't know the world. and you fear it. bella i don't fear it. poor things final cut 53. harry do you want to see what the world is really like? i'll show you. bella yes. of course! 93 ext. sea day 93 the ship is approaching alexandria. 94 int ship hallway day 94 bella and harry, walk past the casino. can see duncan playing. 95 ext alexandria lighthouse to hotel day 95 bella and harry travelling in a cable car. 96 chapter heading 96 abstract image of bella arriving in alexandria bubble 97 int alexandria hotel day 97 harry and bella take breakfast on the balcony of the hotel above the garden. bella hears distant wailing. harry can you hear that? bella what is it? he motions she follow him, they follow the sound. she walks to the end of the balcony, steps up onto step of the balcony so she can peer over the walls of the hotel. below lies a slum, outside the hotel walls. she looks down in horror at a sprawling mess of impoverished, desperate people, mangy dogs, impoverished goats. squalor, flies and mud. harry lot of dead babies. guess it's hot. bella stares, shocked. bella we must go help them! harry and how will we do that? poor things final cut 54. bella i... harry we go down there, they'll quite rightfully rope us, rob us and rape us. and if they were here and we were there we would do the same to them. bella runs. 98 int alexandria hotel stairs day 98 she runs down the stairs screaming, tripping and falling. harry catches up to her, puts his hand over her mouth. she clamps her teeth on his hand. 99 ext ship hallway day 99 bella walks shellshocked along the hallway. 100 int cabin night 100 bella wakes to find dinner suited duncan, asleep, an empty bottle of whisky on his chest, some of the content poured all over his shit when he passed out. he is covered in money. a couple of stacks on the bedside table as well. bella stares at it. she gets up, gathers up the money into a bag. and heads out. 101 ext ship night 101 bella walks to the walkway off the boat. two stewards are preparing to cast off. steward we are casting off ma'am. bella but i must go back? i must give this money to the poor near the hotel, in something called a slum. steward 2 we are staying ashore ma'am. we can take care of that for you. bella you can? steward of course, it is generous of you. poor things final cut 55. bella they need money. steward everyone does. bella thank you. she heads off back up the plank. the two stewards smile at each other, check the money. 102 int cabin hallway night 102 bella walks down the hall. a steward stands in the doorway of the cabin. bella hears duncan's voice as she approaches. duncan to the steward you get me the captain! now, we'll find this fucken thief! he sees bella. she sees he is upending the room. duncan cont'd bella! we've been robbed. i won! i won everything, like never before! but now it's gone! bella you haven't been robbed. i took it. duncan what? bella i took it. she wanders in and flops down on the bed. bella cont'd i am so tired. or maybe just my spirit is. my soul has been buckled, crumpled, flattened, duncan wedderburn by the sights i have seen. he stares at her nonplussed. steward so, no need for the captain then sir? poor things final cut 56. duncan fuck off before i break all your teeth! steward indeed sir. duncan where is it? she cries. duncan cont'd you hid it for safety. i was drunk and foolishly left it everywhere. what a relief. bella i did not hide it. i gave it all away to these poor people, out there. money is its own form of sickness or at least the scarcity of it. and who am i lying on a featherbed as dead babies lie in a...oh duncan. duncan you what? bella i am expecting a hug of solace. duncan you... bella i need to offer something to the world and yet i have nothing. except some money. it is a bad day for bella baxter. he grabs her hard. duncan where is my fucking money?! bella i just told you i gave it away to the poor. the steward returns, knocks on the still open door. an officer with him. duncan i thought i told you to fuck off?! poor things final cut 57. officer the steward informs me you may not have sufficient funds to make good your account sir. bella that is probably true, i gave it all away to some nice men to pass onto the slum poor. the steward smiles. officer you will be offloaded at the next port and confined to staff rations until then. good evening. duncan how dare you?! the steward steps forward and punches duncan in the stomach, winding him. he pushes him over and pulls the door shut. 103 int baxter's dining room day 103 a letter from bella, paper with aaaa ded blnd bibys nooooooooooo bit hrry' scrawled across pages is laid out on the table in lots of sheets, baxter sits reading it. baxter reading dead blind babies, bit harry, my mouth was full of blood. poor bella, she is a ruin. 104 ext ship deck day 104 bella and harry, harry's hand bandaged walk up the plank. bella how is your hand? harry fine. i'm sorry. bella you were trying to help me understand. harry no. i actually wanted to hurt you. i couldn't bear to see such dumb beautiful happiness in someone. it was cruel of me. poor things final cut 58. bella i am not sorry. if i know the world i can improve it. harry you can't bella. that is the real point. don't accept the lie, of religion, socialism, capitalism, we are a fucked species. know it. hope is smashable. realism is not. protect yourself with the truth. bella looks at him. bella i realize what you are now harry, just a broken little boy who cannot bear the pain of the world. harry i suppose so. she kisses him on the cheek. bella goodbye harry. we get thrown off in marseille. harry why do you stay with him. bella i always think it will be better. harry of course you do. she walks off. cut to 105 chapter heading 105 abstract image of bella arriving in paris floating. 106 ext a square in paris day 106 a wide view of paris. bella and duncan huddle under an umbrella on a park bench. a small dog sniffs at them. bella i have heard great things of the beauty of paris. the dog's owner comes by. poor things final cut 59. duncan i will kick your dog to death. fucken paris with no money. what do you suggest we do bella? bella i will get us a hotel. do not worry. duncan uh huh. with what?! we have no money! bella is it not an interesting experiment? we have nothing, how will we live now? duncan i don't know! bella exactly. that is the experiment. we are now the poor. also many adventurers have faced these odds. robinson crusoe for instance. duncan starts weeping into his hands. duncan selfish, thoughtless, careless bitch. bella i'm not thoughtless duncan. and while it is true my ability to think things through to the logical conclusions is not strong, i did help those suffering people. i have ruined us as you point out, but i still believe my actions came from a good duncan shut. the. fuck. up. bella i will get us a hotel. 107 ext square paris day 107 she sees a hotel across the square. a woman in her 40s smiles at her. bella good afternoon madam. poor things final cut 60. swiney good day my fresh, darling, english rose. bella is this a hotel? swiney we have rooms. are you looking for work? bella how much is a room? swiney i charge you 10 francs an hour. you charge them thirty, everyone's happy. bella hmmm. i see. swiney monsieur chapelle. fresh from london. qu'en dites vous? he looks bella up and down. chapelle enchant. hello. elle fera l'affaire. swiney take room 16. he heads up. chapelle merci. swiney so. off you go? bella at this point i am confused. swiney you are not here to work? c'mon, lay with him, let him cock you a bit and make some nice francs. bella i see. he would pay me for this? swiney yes. if you need money, it is the shortest route to it. poor things final cut 61. bella i have never been cocked' by another man, and yet have wondered on that. and am in need of funds. it is i believe, a confluence of circumstances i regard as almost fate like. let us do this. 108 int. paris brothel foyer day 108 swiney room 16. bella makes her way upstairs. 109 int hotel room paris day 109 bella enters the room. the man sits naked on a chair smoking a pipe. chapelle allonge toi. bella your name? he shakes his head no. bella cont'd mysterious. she lays down. he pushes her dress up. lays down on her. starts to position himself. bella cont'd should we warm me up a bit fir he thrusts himself into her. bella cont'd ow. he thrusts himself into her three times. chapelle aaaaaaaagh! she holds in a laugh. he gets up. nods politely. chapelle cont'd merci. 110 int park paris day 110 bella walks back along the park, carrying a chocolate eclair. poor things final cut 62. bella good day sir. eclair au chocolat. i have come into some money, and some enlightenment. duncan you stole it?! bella you have always said you are the best bedman in the world, and i have never known another so knew not whether this was true. but now i do! and he was terrible and made an ungodly noise as he thrust himself into me, and a mere three thrusts duncan wedderburn was all he could manage! well i stifled a laugh out of polites of course, took his money, thanked him, laughed all the way to buy us this eclair, and thought so fondly as i remembered all the fierce sweaty nights of ours. duncan you... fucked for money? bella and as an experiment. which i think will aid us in our relationship as it gladdens my heart for you, and my heart has been a little bit dim on your weepy sweary person lately. he throws the eclair at her. duncan you are a monster. a whore and a monster! you are a demon sent from hell to rip my spirit to shreds to punish my tiny sins with a tsunami of destruction. to take my heart and pull it like taffy, to ruin me. i look at you and see nothing but ugliness. bella that last bit was uncalled for and makes no sense as your odes to my beauty have been boring but constant and now a simple act of letting old wrinkled man ride on me seems to erase this. duncan fuuuck! you whored yourself. poor things final cut 63. bella which now you are going to explain to me is bad. can i never win with you?! duncan it is the worst thing a woman can do. bella we should definitely not ever marry. i am a flawed experimenting person so i will need a husband with a more forgiving disposition. duncan cunnnnt. bella my instinct now tells me you are not that. our adventure is clearly over. she rips open stitching in her dress, pulls god's bills forth. bella cont'd i shall buy you a passage back to london. duncan stares at her. duncan you had money?! the whole time! bella it is god's money for emergencies. duncan it has been a fucking emergency for weeks! bella i believed in you the whole time. that you would rise to the occasion. now however i see that was misplaced and there is something broken in you. duncan you broke that something in me! bella i feel this conversation has become circular. duncan cuuuunt! poor things final cut 64. duncan grabs all the cash out of her hand, and runs. 111 int paris brothel foyer day 111 bella stands before swiney. bella madam swiney, i have examined my situation. i need sex and money. i could take a lover, another wedderburn who would keep me, but may require an awful lot of attention or it's twenty minutes at a time and the rest of my day is free to study on the world and the improving of it. hence i seek employment, in your musty smelling establishment of good time fornication. swiney smiles at her. swiney a woman plotting her course to freedom. how delightful. come. a group of women sit on chairs in the small foyer, waiting for clients. swiney enters with bella. cut to the small bell on the door rings. the girls look up. a large butcher enters. swiney cont'd ah monsieur saveur. he gives her a packet of freshly cut meat. saveur filet mignon. swiney a prime cut. et pour vous? she points to the women, he eyes them. nods at bella. swiney cont'd bella. she follows the butcher up the stairs. passes toinette, one of the girls, in her twenties. toinette say formidable' at the end. house rules. poor things final cut 65. 112 int paris brothel bedroom day 112 he pushes in a door. bella follows him in. she looks at him. he gets undressed. bella reels a bit. bella is that smell you? he walks toward her, pushes her against the wall. starts fucking her. he groans. orgasms. bella cont'd .... formidable? saveur merci. bella nods. as he exits, toinette comes in. she has a cup of tea and a handkerchief. toinette c'est un mouchoir la lavende. pour l'odeur. for the smell. bella takes it smells it. toinette cont'd and.. tea just... because tea is nice. un petit peu english. bella merci. it was brutal, in a strangely not unpleasant way. toinette looks at bella. she laughs. toinette pamphlet. read. je suis socialiste. bella what is that? toinette une personne qui veut changer..change the world pour le meilleur! make it better. a better world. bella then i am that too. the bell rings. poor things final cut 66. 113 int paris brothel foyer night 113 a few whores sit in a line. a businessman is looking over them. bella sees mrs swiney. bella ah mrs swiney, this line up system. you really expect me to go upstairs with a man even if i find him distasteful and so am slightly sad when i let him furious jump me? swiney that is the way it is my darling. gosh you look pretty. how it agrees with you to be ravaged. bella i suppose. but.. the man interrupts. points at bella, but speaks to swiney. mersault nouvelle fille? swiney oui monsieur mersault. bella. he looks at her. bella addresses the man. bella sir would you not prefer it if the women chose? as it would be a sign of enthusiasm for you rather than the vague sense that they are in a state of horror as you jump them. mersault horreur? elles ne sont pas swiney elles vous aiment monsieur. bella is new and may have a mental illness. elle ne comprend pas encore comment cela fonctionne. bella as god my father says, it is only the way it is until we discover the new way it is and then that is the way it is until we discover the new way it is and so it goes until the world is no longer flat, electricity lights the night and shoes no longer are tied with ribbons. you see. poor things final cut 67. toinette je suis d'accord. as a socialist i agree entirely. formidable. swiney toinette, you have such a clever mouth, monsieur mersault will enjoy it for free. go now. swiney cont'd bella. a moment in my office. 114 int swiney's office night 114 swiney you have the most delicious looking lobes. bella thank you, you are most.. swiney i must she bites on bella's ear. bella aha ah. swiney i am sorry, i drew blood. here here. swiney gives her a handkerchief. a disconcerted bella dabs her ear. swiney cont'd i sometimes give into myself when i see beauty, young beauty. for one day my dear you will be a wrinkled old husk, and no one will want you, either to pay you for it or have it for free. bella i still believe everyone would be happier if we could choose. swiney an idealist, like me. how delightful you are. but we must give into the demands of the world sometimes. grapple with it, try to defeat it but bella so you believe as me? poor things final cut 68. swiney of course. but some men enjoy that you do not like it. bella what? that is swiney sick! but good business. come with me. she opens a curtain at the side of her office. a baby sits in a basket. swiney cont'd my grandchild. sick and poorly and requiring much doctoring. my choice of giving you choice will jeopardise the business, her health, her life. do you want that bella? bella of course not swiney you don't? you are so lovely. bella covers her ears. swiney barks out a laugh. bella smiles. bella i thought you were going for my lobes. swiney we must work. we must make money. but more than that bella, we must experience everything. not just the good, but degradation, horror, sadness. this makes us whole bella, makes us people of substance. not flighty, untouched children. then we can know the world. and when we know the world, the world is ours. bella i want that. the bell rings. swiney now go and fuck someone and bring me ten francs. poor things final cut 69. 115 int paris brothel bedroom day 115 bella walks into her room, followed by a plain looking guy in a suit. he start taking his pants off. bella first i suggest a short quiz. guy a...quiz? bella tell me a childhood memory...un souvenir d'enfant, then i will tell you a joke, toc toc, and then a quick sniff and if necessary a quick douse in lavender oil. it will all enhance our experience making it formidable. toc toc! guy um... toc toc? bella non. i am doing the joke. you the memory. le souvenir? guy um... je me souviens tre tomb de mon..velo.. bella you fell from your bicycle..et... guy je l'ai regard, attendant de voir s'il.. guy cont'd oui. jai commenc marcher, and...it..commenc saigner. blood. down my leg. j'ai ressenti une joie intense. bella joie. joy! you watched the blood with joy. guy oui! she smiles, he smiles back. bella knock knock. guy oui c'est? poor things final cut 70. bella fromage. guy fromage? bella cheese to meet you! he laughs. bella cont'd exactly! you know it! they come together. she sniffs him. bella cont'd you smell okay. let us fuck. cut to bella having sex against the wall. cut to bella is crouched semi naked, facing a wall. there is a scuttling noise. she looks back. a naked man scuttles crab like across the floor, sideways but slowly toward her. he gets there, pulls hair from her head with his pincers and eats it. bella turns to watch him, fascinated. he scuttles away from her. cut to bella is being fucked by a handsome guy in his forties. she starts to orgasm as does he. they finish. bella, spent and happy. he puts on his priest clothes. bellle god gave you a gift my friend. priest c'est une malediction. 116 int paris brothel foyer 116 bella in a line up. she stares blankly ahead. a guy with hooks for hands points at her. 117 int paris medical school day 117 bella and toinette duck into the back of a lecture hall. a surgeon cuts up a body as he lectures the class. poor things final cut 71. 118 int paris medical school day 118 the empty hall. the body cut and hollowed out. toinette and bella eat croissants as they walk around it. bella examines the incisions. bella very inelegant work. toinette this is what you do when you're homesick? bella nods. 119 int paris brothel bedroom night 119 bella, bored, with a bit in her mouth suspends from the ceiling. a man humps her leg. 120 int paris brothel room day 120 two boys of sixteen sit on chairs. a man, a well spoken frenchman, in his forties stands, bella sits on the bed. bella you wish what? man my boys are of an age for education. sexual. i will demonstrate. bella i see. man vous pouvez jouer avec les seins de la femme. cela engorge le penis et a l'excite. bella at times. man si votre penis ne s'engorge pas vous pouvez faire appelle son assistance manuelle. he nods at bella. she massages his cock through his pants. man cont'd cela augmente le flux sangain. une fois la duret atteinte... poor things final cut 72. bella shall i lay, bend, astride? man let's starts simple, please. bella lays on the bed. she sees one of the boys staring at her, she winks, he looks down. the other is studiously taking notes. the guy gets between her legs, enters her. man cont'd ...commence doucement le va et vient. j'aime bien commencer par un quatre, quatre, puis un trois trois, ensuite un deux deux qui gnralement ammne au climax. boy et si a ne vient pas pre? bella ah, to aid things along a finger in the arse or a slight choking may do it. man c'est vrai!! cut to bella hears a wailing sound from the alley below. she goes to the window, looks down. duncan sits in the alley, he is pulling clumps of hair out. looks up, sees her, smiles, waves, a clump of hair in his hands. bella go home! 121 ext paris multiple views square day 121 toinette and bella walk. bella swiney was right. i am discovering parts of myself hitherto unknown. toinette it is a way to look at it. bella the variety of desires being made manifest is fascinating. more poor things final cut 73. bella cont'd did you have the man who puts a wedge of pineapple in your mouth and covers you in dust? toinette oui, jacques. il est gentil. duncan appears beside her, dusty and rips in his clothes. duncan bella. i have decided to forgive you. i have booked our berths home. i have told mother to prepare our wedding bed. did you fuck the guy with hooks for hands? you did. i know. i beat the tar out of that guy. bella duncan i thought you went. duncan i went to the boat, but started to ache and vomit, so am here to save you. toinette le duncan! quel gchis! he holds his hand out to her. duncan charm. bella go home duncan. our time has ended. i look at you and feel nothing but the lingering question of how did i ever want you? toinette oooo. and we must go to the meeting of socialists. duncan you're whores! bella we are our own means of production. get out of the way. duncan stops. they walk on and head through. 122 int baxter's stairway day 122 felicity is finger painting on the walls of the sitting room. max sits nearby taking notes. poor things final cut 74. felicity foot. paint foot. max very good. baxter enters. max cont'd her language is slow but improving. felicity gmmmf. paint. foot. baxter nods to her. baxter genius. max can you not be so cruel to her? baxter i made a mistake with bella. i allowed feelings to develop. but there are none for her, she is no different to the chicken dog. it is better this way perhaps, and gives some insight to my father's coolness to me. it was a necessity of science. max good god man! baxter i do not expect you to understand village doctor. by the way i need you to operate on me. max shall i put a beating heart in your monstrous form? baxter if you have time while taking this out. he pulls up his shirt to reveal a large growth protruding from his stomach. cut to poor things final cut 75. 123 int baxter's house surgery day 123 baxter lies on the operating table.. he looks to where he has a mirror set up so he can watch. max slices his belly and opens him up. prim assists. he slices around the perimeter of the tumour. max i will take some cells from around the tumour. baxter no need. you may close me up. it has spread. i can see tiny polyps. max oh. he peers in. looks at baxter. baxter i am dying. how to break it to the patient hey? laughs. max baxter. baxter do not cry into the wound. you will kill me faster with sepsis. quiet now and close me up. max nods. baxter closes his eyes. baxter cont'd find her. 124 int paris brothel bedroom night 124 bella lies on the bed. a closed book next to her. bella i am closed! swiney enters. swiney hot chocolate my dear. and pain au chocolat. you are my favourite. bella i have heard you say that to others. we are a machine you feed with compliments and chocolate. poor things final cut 76. swiney you are my children i feed with love. bella a terrible thing has happened swiney. i feel almost nothing, and my empathy is creeping towards something i would describe as contemptuous rage. swiney this is fabulous. bella it is? swiney you are in the dark period before light and wisdom come to you. you must forge through it, and once on the other side you will be grateful to this moment. but you must keep going. bella takes it in, nods. bella i see. swiney looks at her. bella covers her ears. swiney bites her arm. bella cont'd ah.....ah. 125 int paris brothel bedroom day 125 bella's flushed ecstatic face. from under the sheets appears toinette. cut to toinette sings to bella. toinette o est ton bb? bella quel bb? she points to the scar on bella's stomach. toinette you've got a baby scar. moi aussi. poor things final cut 77. she sits up to show her own. toinette cont'd mine is with ma maman. le tien? bella i don't have one... it is an accident scar. but you are not the first to make the mistake. toinette why lie?! bella i am not lying! my god told me himself. toinette un homme? bella oui. she shrugs as if that answers that. toinette voil. bella takes this in. looks down at her stomach. the scar. cut to 126 int baxter's house hallway study day 126 a thick letter arrives, mad writing on the envelope. max finds it, picks it up. reads it, walks to the study where godwin is unconscious laying in the day bed hooked up to a machine, pumping blood for him. max wedderburn. 127 int asylum day 127 duncan is in a cell, lying facing the wall. max good day sir. he gets no response. max cont'd you wrote to mr godwin baxter. poor things final cut 78. duncan he has set a demon at large in the world, the devil has wrapped her in an alluring body that cannot be satiated and a mind that picks people apart stitch by stitch like a bloodied and burned rag doll that has been shat out an elephant's arse! max bella. where is she? he looks up at him as if noticing for the first time. duncan who are you? max i am her fianc sir. duncan takes a beat then laughs. scratches at his leg. max notices the bloody scratches all over his ankle.. max cont'd obviously things did not end well between you? duncan did not?....she destroyed me! max we are all masters of our own ship so there's that. duncan i do not like you and your words! that godwin baxter! he knew, and he set her onto me, trapped me. max where is she?! duncan i would not wish her on my worst enemy, i will save you sir from max kicks him in the stomach. max forgive my frustration, just tell me. duncan it does not hurt, i have no insides, she has hollowed me out, my soul, my bank account. more poor things final cut 79. duncan cont'd i am a shell, a bug. shall we sing? oh we are sailors on a ship of fools. max picks him up and slams him against a wall, surprising himself. max i do not wish to be like this, you force my hand. duncan we are all masters of our own ship you cunting cuntfaced deadshit. max please i ask you as politely as i can. where is she? 128 int paris brothel bedroom day 128 bella lies on her bed. fingers the scar on her stomach. toinette comes in. toinette tu as une lettre. walks out. bella, looks at the postcard. london postmark. a formally drawn sketch of baxter on his bed, surrounded by medical devices. r.i.p soon. come.' written next to it. 129 omitted 129 130 chapter heading 130 abstract image of bella arriving in london bridge 131 extint baxter's house day 131 bella stares at the house as she stands at the door. she smiles. knocks. the door swings back. prim looks at her. prim the whore's back! prim walks away. bella steps inside. 132 int baxter's house drawing room day 132 baxter pulls himself up, leans on the day bed. he is hooked up to an oxygen machine, and a glass bulb sluices blood via a tube in and out of his body. poor things final cut 80. bella comes in. she rushes to god. hugs him. he grimaces. but is slightly overcome by her touch. bella god! max wrote me, you are ill? baxter i am not. i am dying. a subtle difference, but one i take seriously as a physician. you are a sight. and a good one. bella you cannot die. baxter empirical data says different. i missed you. i now have to lie down. she helps him down. bella it is not all sunshine i bring, i also bring beady eyes and hard questions for you. did i have a baby in me? and if so where is it? baxter i see. well, technically you are your baby. and also i suppose you are your mother. but also neither. no memory survives. no experiences survive. bella what do you mean i am mother and daughter? 133 int baxter's house operating theater day 133 bella goes through baxter's papers. finds notes on her operation. she starts reading. max enters, stands at the door. bella you knew? and did not tell? max i...did not see good reason too.. bella and were too cowardly to. poor things final cut 81. max a bit of that as well. i just wanted to be with you and was not sure you would even understand and baxter kind of makes one a prisoner to him, and....sorry. cut to bella exmaines the looping scar on her neck in a mirror. 134 int baxter's house dining room meal preparation area day 134 she walk into the kitchen, felicity at the table, she is singing a song, which is really just the same word over and over as she smashes steak with a meat hammer on the table. prim supervises. felicity bam. bam. bam. bam. bella who's this? felicity keeps banging as she looks at bella. felicity bell whore, bell whore, bell whore. bella you have introduced me already then prim? prim i like this one though. prim reaches for the meat. prim cont'd that's enough feli felicity brings the hammer down on prim's hand with the hammer. prim cont'd fucker! felicity laughs, goes on hitting the table. bella looks at max. bella she is another? max well...we missed you. poor things final cut 82. bella monsters. bella walks out. 135 ext london street day 135 bella walks the street. 136 ext london bridge day 136 bella walks onto the bridge. looks over and sees some dead fish lying on the bank. 137 int baxter's house drawing room night 137 baxter lies on the day bed. machines whirring around him. bella enters. she goes to him. he opens his eyes looks at her. bella it is hard to be in a position where one wants to hit someone who is already in obvious pain. baxter it is a conundrum for sure. would you rather be a grey slab of flesh with a fish hook in your nose? she drops her arm. bella i will feel good for a second, and bad for longer so... i really had a fish hook in my nose? baxter you did. bella so i am your creation. as is the other one. baxter neither of you are that. she wanders the halls with a hammer and a song, that is not my doing, and i have read your cards and letters home and watched you fearlessly create bella baxter with wonder. poor things final cut 83. bella i am finding being alive fascinating so i will forgive you the act, but always hate the lies and trapping that followed. baxter understood. good to see you. bella you too. anger, confusion and brain dissonance aside. i missed you. she puts her hand on his. bella cont'd i arrived home and i smelt the fomeldahyde and i knew what is next. i will be a doctor. he closes his eyes, smiles. baxter my surgery is yours. my father once said to me, always carve with compassion. he was a fucking idiot, but it's not bad advice. 138 ext london park day 138 bella and max walk in the forest. max he does not have long. bella i know. they walk a bit. bella cont'd you have not mentioned our betrothal. max you were much younger, there is no...bind. i was mesmerised by you and baxter took advantage of it. bella so you are mesmerised no more? max i am still... mesmerised. poor things final cut 84. bella i have been a whore you understand. cocks for money inside me. are you okay with that? or is the whore thing a challenge to the desire for ownership men have. wedderburn became much sweary and weepy when he discovered my whoring. max i find myself merely jealous of the men's time with you, rather than a moral aspersion against you. it is your body bella baxter. yours to give freely. bella i generally charged thirty francs. max seems low. bella do you believe people improvable max? max i do, as a human body can be cured of illness, so can men and women be cured of aspects. bella will you marry me max mccandles? max i will. she grabs him and kisses him. he kisses her back. bella we will need less of your tongue in the future but overall most agreeable. max i will take a note. and have you been checked for um... disease? bella i have not, but i shall. i am enjoying this practical love we have. max mine is also passionate! i assure you. bella laughs. poor things final cut 85. bella you are adorable. you always were. cut to 139 int london church day 139 max stands at the altar, a priest before them. a few tourists looking around the church, or praying in pews. no guests. bella walks down the aisle. baxter appears beside her, aided by prim. bella god! you are walking? baxter i have taken 5 milligrams of heroin through the toes for the pain, amphetamines for energy, and cocaine because i am partial to cocaine. i will walk you down the aisle. they walk to max. priest and so by the powers vested in me by the church i will solemnize this union. do you bella baxter take this man as your husband? she is about to answer. alfie did we miss the part about anyone objecting to this? or has that been removed in some kind faux modernization of the catechism. they turn. alfred blessington, a sombre looking but magnetic man, has stormed into the church. alfie cont'd hello victoria, you look well. bella do you refer to me sir? alfie man doesn't normally introduce himself to his wife. but if i must baxter coughs violently. blood sprays. poor things final cut 86. duncan he is the god of it. i do not know if he is in her power or she in his. it is a devil's hand at work as you see. he coughs not air as a normal man but blood. max he has cancer you fucking idiot! bella duncan? duncan do not lay your eyes on me you demon. alfie as i was saying. general alfred blessington. alfie to you. you really do not know me? when mr. wedderburn put your photo in the paper. duncan i remembered that old bird at the hotel called you victoria blessington. and pieced this diabolical fuckfest of a puzzle together. bella looks at alfie. bella you are alfie your dear alfie. you left in a state of some mental addlement and hysteria over your pregnancy. on the discovery of your absence i felt disembowelled. i have disembowelled men on the field of battle and i always imagined a dull hollow throbbing. and that is what it was like. there is also a stench, but that does not apply as a metaphor here. here you are my darling. here you are. he comes toward her arms outstretched. baxter oh god. bella i have no recollection of you. i am bella baxter. poor things final cut 87. alfie hurtful but perhaps you hit your head. and these men have clearly taken advantage of you. baxter please go sir! bella looks at baxter and max. back at alfie. bella you were my husband? alfie your dear alfie. baxter bella. i am sorry. bella actually i would like to go. max what?! baxter bella! bella do you have a carriage sir? alfie ..yes! bella let us go then. baxter bella! he grabs her arm. she looks at him. bella let me go god. he does. bella cont'd will you stop me max? he shakes his head. 140 omitted 140 poor things final cut 88. 141 int carriage day 141 bella sits with alfie in the carriage. there are flowers on the seat. it's a bit awkward. he smiles at her. pats her hand. alfie it is good to have you back victoria. 142 ext alfie's house gates day 142 some gates open. the carriage pulls into a circular driveway. high walls. long driveway. the gates shut behind her and are bolted. she looks up at the mansion in front of her. 143 ext alfie's house driveway day 143 alfie helps her from the carriage. as they head up the steps. alfie pulls a pistol from his pocket. she looks at it. alfie the servants and i have not been getting along. i fear an uprising. the door opens, a dishevelled butler, a cigarette hanging from his lip, opens it. sees bella. his eyes widen. he steps back. alfie cont'd you remember david darling. david steps back, nods to her. as they enter, a maid with her arm in a sling, sees bella. alfie cont'd allison look who's back. she nods slowly. 144 int alfie's house hallway day 144 allison and bella walk together along the dusty dishevelled hallway. poor things final cut 89. bella you know me? she nods. bella cont'd tell me about myself. they girl stares at her. looks away. keeps walking. bella cont'd was i nice? the girl barks a laugh. they enter a room. 145 int alfie's house bella's bedroom day 145 bella takes in the room, she goes to the dressing table. sees a writing desk. on the pad is the outline of the word fuck written forty times. 146 int alfie's house dining room night 146 alfie and bella sit at the dining table. an array of dishes on the table. alfie eats with gusto. she watches him. alfie eat. all your favourites. kippers. goose. tongue. champagne. i missed you. bella what do you think was the root of the unhappiness, what drove her to the bridge to leap off? he stares at her. smiles. alfie you hated the baby, and called it the monster'. bella i see. i have noticed a lack of maternal instinct. alfie and yet i am happy to have you home. he raises a glass. bella how did we meet? poor things final cut 90. alfie at a ball. bella why did we like each other? alfie we shared a love of good times. watch. allison! soup! he clicks his finger. the doberman in the corner stands to attention. walks over to the door. as the door opens. alfie cont'd rex. the doberman leaps up on its hind legs and barks like crazy, just as allison enters with a tureen of soup. startled, allison staggers back, falls, the tureen of soup going all over her. alfie roars laughing. bella can't help but laugh too. allison fuck. she gets up, makes to come at him. he takes his revolver and waves it in her direction. alfie we'll have some cheese when you can. bella a love of cruelty. i was not a kind person it seems. alfie kind? you would never be so dull victoria. an appalling idea. wedderburn says you were a whore. i suspect it was part of his madn bella i was. in paris. i tired of it but it was fascinating. alfie stares at her as she tries kippers. alfie right. bella these kippers are strangely delicious. vinegary or something. poor things final cut 91. alfie marriage is a constant challenge some we bend to some we bend to us. i will try to forgive you for the whoring, your sexual hysteria was often out of hand, and also for the killing of our unborn child. in fact when i list how you've wronged me jesus christ himself would probably beat your head in with a bat. you are blessed with a forgiving husband. bella i have not wronged you. for i do not know you alfie. alfie you're in luck as i've had a lot of experience in the field with amnesia, either men who wished to forget where they were, or a mortar exploded nearby ringing their cranium like a church bell. i suggest we stick close to the house for several months or a year until you have made a full recovery. bella i will leave at my leisure but i am flattered by your desire to trap me. you are not the first. alfie i will have to shoot you in the fucking head if you try to leave darling. bella the front or the back of the head? alfie the back as to be sure you were leaving and i was not being rash. i have missed you. bella so i am a prisoner? alfie this conversation has gone down an unfortunate route. i am sure you will be as happy as you were before. bella as i was before? when i threw myself from a bridge? poor things final cut 92. alfie i suspect you fell while looking for fish. bella why would you want to keep me here if i did not wish to stay? alfie if one is to drown let it be in a river of love. david clears his plate. alfie cocks his weapon. alfie cont'd does that pheasant look stripped to the bone? david it was a misjudgement sir. i apologize. alfie desert darling? 147 omitted 147 148 omitted 148 149 omitted 149 150 ext alfie's house gates day 150 morning. bella exits into the garden. she goes to the gate. it is impossible to open. looks at how high the walls are. realizes she's trapped. 151 int alfie's house dinning room day 151 she passes through the house, hears talking, follows the sound. stands at the door, sees alfie talking to a doctor. alfie it comes off easy? doctor like a button on a suit. i saw them do it in africa with sharpened rocks but had my own more precise device made. poor things final cut 93. he holds a metal device, a small round circle of metal with a razor that slides across it. doctor cont'd do you want just clitoral hood, or glans as well? alfie the whole infernal packet. doctor it will calm her no end. bella stands watching, breathing heavily shocked. alfie this time we will get it done. i shall get her sedated and bring her to your surgery this evening. 152 int alfie's house bella's bedroom day 152 bella sits in her room, looks at the pad with the word fuck written over and over. alfie o.s victoria darling, where are you?! cut to 153 int alfie's dining room day 153 alfie mixes martinis. lifts one up. for her. alfie ah, perfect timing. martini. bella rather not. i would however like to leave. i found our time together interesting, but having now ascertained why i threw myself from a bridge. i wish to now go see my near dead god. alfie adorable idea. unfortunately my darling my life is dedicated to the taking of territory. you are mine and that is the long and short of it. bella i am not territory. poor things final cut 94. alfie the root of the problem is between your legs and i will have it off and it will not distract and divert you anymore. a man spends his life wrangling his sexual compulsions, it's a curse, and yet in some ways his life's work. a woman's life's work is children, i intend to rid you of that infernal packet between your legs and plant a seed straight after. bella let me explain what has happened. victoria, your wife, threw herself from a bridge and died. baxter found her, took her to his surgery, he then removed the baby, removed the brain from the baby, transplanted it into my head and reanimated me. alfie uh huh. bella i'll bring you the file. it's actually quite fascinating. however, i will keep my new life and my lovely old clitoris thank you. so if you'd call for a carriage for me alfie draws a gun. alfie they talk and talk, and at some point there is nothing left but to pull a gun. it is the way with women. bella walks to him calmly. he studies her. alfie cont'd are you giving in? bella i'd rather you shot me in the fucking heart. alfie i will oblige if i have to. drink the drink my darling. chloroform and gin, delicious. she picks it up. poor things final cut 95. bella in some ways it would be a relief to be rid of my questing self. alfie sip deeply and that freedom is yours. she tosses it suddenly in his face. grabs at the gun, they struggle. it goes off. they stop. there is a hole in alfie's foot. blood pools out.bella sees the blood pouring onto the floor. as does he. bella still has the gun. alfie cont'd fuck. he reaches for her suddenly, but then topples over. she looks down at him. cut to 154 omitted 154 155 int baxter's foyer day 155 alfie lies on the ground in the foyer, bleeding. prim stands staring at him. bella and max enter. bella we must get him up to the surgery. he will die if we cannot stop it. prim he's bleeding a lot. alfie is falling in and out of consciousness. alfie you're....fucking...de..ad.. he passes out. max bella, if he lives...i sense he is not a man who will stop. bella i will not watch him bleed to death max, but i agree, he could do with improvement. bella and prim drag alfie down the hall. poor things final cut 96. 156 int baxter's house surgery day 156 alfie lies on the surgical table, unconscious. max is operating in his gown. he digs into the bloody flesh, tries to get the bullet. max i have controlled the bleeding. he looks up as bella leads the goat in. bella i have the notes. he looks at her. she smiles. bella cont'd i am never happier than when i am in here. she picks up a scalpel. cut to 157 int baxter's house drawing room night 157 baxter is set up on the sofa, machines pumping around him. bella lays down next to him. baxter bella. she takes his hand. baxter cont'd you're back. she nods. bella it was just a story of someone else, not bella baxter. max lies down the other side of baxter. baxter all my life people's eyes looked at me, horror, pity... he smiles as she stares at him with love. baxter cont'd but you. he kisses her head. poor things final cut 97. baxter cont'd it is very interesting... what is happening... he presses her hand. she kisses his forehead. she looks at his hand, limp in hers. he's dead. his eyes open. bella stares at him. with her fingers closes his eye lids. lays her head on his chest. 158 ext baxter's house garden day 158 in a courtyard garden. max is making drinks. prim throws a ball at felicity. she has mastered catching the ball. she's very happy. toinette lounging on a chair and next to bella reading. bella anatomy exam is making me nervous. max i have tested you many times, you know it. toinette no one knows anatomy better than you. crois moi. bella certainement effectivement. ladies? gin? prim please. felicity gin. bella and we should get water for the general. we cut to alfie. he is on the lawn on all fours, eating grass. he bleats. prim felicity. water. alfie eats grass. bella and toinette clink glasses, happy. max, prim, happy. felicity makes her way slowly to get water. bella smiles as she reads her book. the end